# 2023_NatPhys_01920

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** technical  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:31:44  
**Original File:** 2023_NatPhys_01920.pdf

---

## Content

nature physics

Article                                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5


Thermal expansion and the glass transition

Received: 12 July 2022                               Peter Lunkenheimer 1 , Alois Loidl 1, Birte Riechers                        ,
                                                                                                                               2,3


                                                     Alessio Zaccone 4 & Konrad Samwer 5
Accepted: 14 December 2022

Published online: xx xx xxxx
                                                     Melting is well understood in terms of the Lindemann criterion, which
   Check for updates                                 essentially states that crystalline materials melt when the thermal vibrations
                                                     of their atoms become so vigorous that they shake themselves free of the
                                                     binding forces. This picture does not necessarily have to hold for glasses,
                                                     where the nature of the solid–liquid cross-over is highly debated. The
                                                     Lindemann criterion implies that the thermal expansion coefficients of
                                                     crystals are inversely proportional to their melting temperatures. Here
                                                     we find that, in contrast, the thermal expansion coefficient of glasses
                                                     decreases more strongly with increasing glass temperature, which marks the
                                                     liquid–solid cross-over in this material class. However, this proportionality
                                                     returns when the thermal expansion coefficient is scaled by the fragility, a
                                                     measure of particle cooperativity. Therefore, for a glass to become liquid,
                                                     it is not sufficient to simply overcome the interparticle binding energies.
                                                     Instead, more energy must be invested to break up the typical cooperative
                                                     particle network that is common to glassy materials. The thermal expansion
                                                     coefficient of the liquid phase reveals similar anomalous behaviour and
                                                     is universally enhanced by a constant factor of approximately 3. These
                                                     universalities allow the estimation of glass temperatures from thermal
                                                     expansion and vice versa.


Many materials in technology and nature are glasses, that is, disor-           that is, a jump in their derivatives, at first glance reminiscent of a
dered materials that are solid but lack the periodicity of a crystalline       second-order phase transition. This is also the case for the volume
lattice1,2. This includes not only the common silica-based transparent         (Fig. 1a) as well as the thermal expansion, which is considered in the
materials used for windows, glass fibres, etc. but also many poly-             present work.
mers and bio-derived materials, various solid-state electrolytes,                    Although humans have used supercooling to prepare glasses for
supercooled molecular liquids and even amorphous metals. This                  millennia, there is no consensus on the true nature of the glass transi-
state of matter is usually prepared by cooling a liquid sufficiently           tion1–5. The temperature of the mentioned cross-over depends on the
fast to avoid crystallization1–3. Below the melting temperature Tm,            cooling rate, clearly excluding a canonical phase transition. Instead,
a so-called supercooled liquid is formed first, before the material            it is commonly assumed that the liquid falls out of thermodynamic
becomes a glass below the glass temperature Tg < Tm. The latter marks          equilibrium at the glass transition, which happens just at Tg for a typical
the boundary between liquid and solid, which usually is defined at             cooling rate of 10 K min−1. Nevertheless, various competing theoreti-
a viscosity value of 1012 Pa s. However, in contrast to crystallization,       cal approaches assume that an underlying, ‘hidden’ phase transition
the solidification at Tg occurs smoothly, that is, without a discon-           at a temperature above or below Tg may in fact govern the cross-over
tinuous jump of the viscosity. Below Tg, most physical quantities of a         between liquid and glass2,4,6,7. Alternatively, it could simply be a purely
glass-former exhibit a cross-over to weaker temperature dependence,            kinetic phenomenon4,8,9.


1
 Experimental Physics V, Center for Electronic Correlations and Magnetism, University of Augsburg, Augsburg, Germany. 2Bundesanstalt für
Materialforschung und -prüfung, Berlin, Germany. 3Glass and Time, Department of Science and Environment, Roskilde University, Roskilde, Denmark.
4
  Department of Physics ‘A. Pontremoli’, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. 5I. Physikalisches Institut, University of Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.
   e-mail: peter.lunkenheimer@physik.uni-augsburg.de


Nature Physics
Article                                                                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5


       a                              b                                         d
                    Tg                                                                                 –3                                                                    Liquid
                                                                                                  10
                                           0                α1                                                                                                        α
                           αl                                                                                                             1/T




                                     U
      V



                                                                                                                                            g
             αg                        U0        α2
                                                                                                       –4
                                                                                                  10




                                                                                αl , αl/m (K–1)
                    T                                            x
                                                                                                                                                α/m
                                                                                                                                                                          Exp(–Tg/θ)
       c                                                                                          10
                                                                                                       –5
                                                                                                                  1/T
                                                                                                                    g
                                      Liquid



                                                       αl                                           –6
                                                                                                  10
                                                                                e
                                                                                                              Exp(–Tg/θ)                                                     Glass

                                           Tm                                                                                                                     α
                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                       –4                1/T
                                                                                                                              g
               Supercooled liquid



                                      αl
                                                                                αg , αg/m (K–1)
                                                      Crystal                                     10
                                                                                                       –5
                                                                                                                                  α/m

                                                                                                                        1/T
                                                                                                                          g
                                      Tg                                αc
                        Glass                                                                       –6
                                                                                                  10

                                                                                                                   Molecular
                                      αg                                                                           Ionic
                                                      Configurational                                                                           Network silicates
                                                      dynamics                                                     Polymers                     Network borates
                                                      Vibrational                                 10
                                                                                                       –7
                                                                                                                   Metallic                     Network others
                                                      dynamics
                                                                                                            100                     200          300            500       1,000
                                                                                                                                                       Tg (K)

Fig. 1 | Contributions to the thermal expansion and its correlations with                         arrows. The double-headed arrows illustrate the resulting thermal expansion.
the glass temperature. a, Schematic of the temperature variation of the                           d,e, Double-logarithmic plot of the experimentally determined thermal volume-
volume around the glass transition (blue line, glass state; red line, liquid).                    expansion coefficients αg in the glass phase (e) and of αl in the liquid phase (d)
b, Schematic of the asymmetric pair potential giving rise to thermal expansion                    versus the glass temperature Tg for a large variety of glass-formers belonging to
in a solid. Two potentials for two different binding energies (depths of minima)                  different material classes (see Supplementary Table 1 for detailed information on
are shown (orange and cyan solid lines: potential for high and low binding                        all the materials and values and the corresponding references; for water, shown
energies, respectively). The dotted black lines show the slopes at the attractive                 by the crossed pentagons, two glass-transition scenarios were considered; see
parts of the potentials, which are smaller for lower binding energy. The dashed                   Supplementary Note 5). In addition to the bare expansion coefficients (open
lines (orange, high binding energy; cyan, low binding energy) indicate the                        symbols), the figure also provides the α values divided by the fragility parameter
average location of the particle, which shifts to the right (larger interparticle                 m (filled symbols), being a measure of cooperative dynamics. The solid orange
distance) for higher temperature, leading to thermal expansion. For the deeper                    lines show linear fits with a slope of −1, based on all data points for each phase,
potential, the particle position is shown for two temperatures. c, Schematic                      except for αl of the borates and of water and except for αg of SiO2. The dashed lines
of the different contributions to the thermal expansion of liquids, glasses and                   represent fits with α ∝ exp(−Tg/θ) with the same θ ≈ 270 K for both data sets. Note
crystals: the vibrational dynamics is indicated by the shaded areas around the                    that the ordinates of d and e have been adjusted to achieve the same decades per
spheres, representing the atoms or molecules of the material. The additional                      centimetre ratio. In a and c–e, bluish and reddish backgrounds indicate solid- and
configurational dynamics in the liquid phases is indicated by single-headed                       liquid-like states, respectively.




      In contrast, the transition between the liquid and solid states                             with higher Tm. Making the reasonable approximations that Tm ∝ U0
via crystallization and melting is much better understood10, in par-                              (with U0 the depth of the well) and that 1/αc ∝ s ∝ U0 (ref. 16; see Supple-
ticular in terms of the basic ideas behind the Lindemann criterion11,12.                          mentary Note 1 for a more detailed discussion), one arrives at:
The latter predicts that melting occurs when the r.m.s. displacement
of particles due to thermal vibrations exceeds a certain percentage                                                                              ac Tm = const.                        (1)
of the interparticle spacing12, often reported to be roughly on the
order of 10% (refs. 13–15). It is nowadays well established that these vibra-                          Here, αc is defined as the relative volume change at constant pres-
tions take place within potential wells whose asymmetry gives rise to                             sure p, namely, αc = 1/V (∂V/∂T)p. Indeed, such a relation was suggested
thermal expansion. There are arguments (Supplementary Note 1 and                                  to be directly related to the Lindemann criterion14,17 (see also Supple-
ref. 16) that, for higher melting temperatures, associated with deeper                            mentary Note 1).
wells, the slope of the attractive part of the potential should be steeper                             In crystalline solids, the ordered structure melts at the melting
(Fig. 1b). As this slope s is related to the thermal expansion coefficient                        temperature, and in glasses, the rigid disordered structure dissolves
αc of a crystalline material, one can expect less expansion for materials                         above the glass temperature. Thus, it seems natural that these two


Nature Physics
Article                                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5

phenomena should have a common basis, specifically bearing in mind                 and other systems), polymers, ionic glass-formers (including ionic
that, for many glasses, the relation Tg ≈ 2/3Tm holds18–22 (although excep-        liquids and melts), metallic systems (so-called bulk metallic glasses and
tions are also reported23). In light of a possible Lindemann-like criterion        others) and network glass-formers (including silicates, borates, phos-
for the glass–liquid transition considered, for example, in refs. 4,21,22,24–28,   phates, chalcogenides and halogenides, whose networks are mainly
in analogy to crystals, one may thus expect the relation:                          formed by covalent bonds, in contrast to hydrogen-bonded materials
                                                                                   such as water or alcohols, which also can form molecular networks).
                                ag Tg = const.                              (2)    Their interparticle bond types vary from covalent, hydrogen, ionic,
                                                                                   metallic to van der Waals. Their glass temperatures cover about one
      In general, the thermal expansion is of fundamental importance,              decade, and their thermal expansion coefficients vary by approxi-
defining universal quantities such as the Grüneisen parameter or the               mately 2.5 and 1.5 decades in the glass and liquid phase, respectively.
Prigogine–Defay ratio1,12,29. It also reflects the occurrence of differ-           In general, the available data basis is broader for the glass state than
ent dynamic processes in glasses30. The change of slope of V(T) at Tg              for the liquid phase.
(Fig. 1a) is one of the most paradigmatic characteristics of the glass                  The open symbols in Fig. 1d,e show the complete α(Tg) data sets
transition18,31,32. The thermal expansion coefficient in liquids, αl, is           for the liquid and glass states, respectively, using a double-logarithmic
higher by about a factor of 1.5–4 than in solids32–35. It is well established      representation. The first conclusion from these figures is a clear cor-
that αl contains two contributions: a vibrational one, also present in the         relation of the thermal expansion with the glass temperature, namely, a
solid state, and an additional configurational one, being caused by the            decrease of αg and αl with increasing Tg. Notably, this correlation holds
translational motions of the particles that also give rise to the viscous          across very diverse material classes (indicated by different symbols
flow defining a liquid22,33,34,36 (see the schematic representation in             in the figures) with different bond types and drastically varying glass
Fig. 1c). The vibrational contribution arises from the anharmonic inter-           temperatures. The scatter of the data certainly partly signals the fact
particle potential and dominates the thermal expansions of crystals                that α was often measured employing very different techniques applied
and glasses, which mostly are of similar magnitude.                                by various experimental groups during the last century. It probably
      Interestingly, Stillinger and co-workers suggested a Lindemann-              also arises from variations in the width and separation from Tg of the
like freezing criterion for liquids37–39. On the basis of molecular dyn­           temperature regime where the thermal expansion was determined
amics simulations, they found that melts freeze if the r.m.s. particle             (see also Supplementary Notes 3 and 4). Figure 1d also includes data
displacement falls below about one-half of the interparticle spacing.              for water (crossed pentagons), whose glass transition is highly contro-
In analogy to equations (1) and (2), related to the Lindemann melting              versial. When considering the ambiguities in the determination of its
criterion, one could thus naively expect that:                                     α and Tg, for both proposed glass-transition scenarios (with or without
                                                                                   assuming a liquid–liquid transition and with different Tg values; see
                                al Tg = const.                              (3)    Supplementary Note 5 for more details), its values reasonably match
                                                                                   the suggested correlation.
with αl as the expansion coefficient of the liquid. However, αl is believed             As discussed above, in principle, a decrease of α with increasing Tg,
to be governed by additional configurational motions instead of the                as demonstrated in Fig. 1d,e, is expected if a Lindemann-like scenario
vibrations exclusively considered in the Lindemann scenario. There-                would apply for the glass–liquid transition, too. However, when assum-
fore, deviations from such a correlation, if present at all, may be                ing the validity of equations (2) and (3), such double-logarithmic plots of
expected. Nevertheless, in ref. 40, such a relation was predicted, on              α versus Tg (open symbols) should lead to approximately linear behaviour
the basis of theoretical considerations. Moreover, within the frame-               with a slope of −1. Instead, both data sets depend much more strongly
work of the recently developed Krausser–Samwer–Zaccone model41,                    on Tg, as becomes obvious from a comparison with the upper solid lines,
equation (3) should also be approximately valid and consistent with                indicating a slope of −1, that is α ∝ 1/Tg. At best, only part of the liquid
a correlation of the repulsive part of the interparticle potential and             data, especially at Tg < 400 K, are roughly consistent with equation (3).
the fragility index m (refs. 42,43) that was recently found for a variety of       We find that an exponential Tg-dependent variation, αi = α0,iexp(−Tg/θi)
glass-formers44 (see Supplementary Note 2 for details).                            (with i = ‘g’ or ‘l’ for glass or liquid, respectively), as indicated by the
      In literature, there are some reports on, partly contradicting, cor-         dashed lines in Fig. 1d,e, provides a much better formal description
relations of Tg with the thermal expansion or with Δα, the jump of α at            of the experimental data than the dependence αi ∝ 1/Tg suggested by
Tg, namely, ΔαTg = const. (refs. 45,46), ΔαTg ∝ Tg (ref. 47), ag T2g = const.      equations (2) and (3). Indeed, both data sets can be quite well linearized
(ref. 20) and αlTg = const. (refs. 40,45) (equation (3)). However, they all were   within a semi-logarithmic representation, plotting the logarithm of αi
found for specific classes of glass-formers only, and the overall data             versus Tg (Supplementary Fig. 1). The only exception are the values for the
base was limited. In contrast, in the present work, using data on more             borates in the liquid state, whose thermal expansion seems to represent
than 200 materials from literature (Supplementary Table 1), we check               a special case. Indeed, exceptional thermal expansion properties of the
for such correlations across very different classes of glass-formers.              borate glasses were identified earlier19,48,49 They are believed to be due to
      If equation (2) or (3) or alternative universal relations hold, α            their specific network structure involving triangular-shaped BO3 basic
measured in a glass or liquid would allow one to predict glass tempera-            units, instead of the tetrahedral units prevailing in most other network
tures, without any knowledge of microscopic pair potential param-                  glass-formers (Supplementary Fig. 1, circles and squares) in this high Tg
eters. At the same time, one could gain insight into the universality of           range. Moreover, temperature- and composition-dependent structural
configurational contributions to the thermal expansion at T > Tg and               rearrangements also may play a role50,51.
concerning the relevance of a Lindemann-like mechanism for the glass                    The very similar α–Tg correlations for the liquid and glass state
transition. In any case, the explanation of a possible universal relation-         are astonishing, bearing in mind that the thermal expansion in the
ship of α and Tg would represent a severe benchmark for any model of               supercooled liquid includes vibrational as well as configurational
the glass transition.                                                              contributions, while in the glass it should be dominated by vibrational
                                                                                   contributions only. Moreover, we find an approximately identical expo-
Experimental data and analysis                                                     nential factor θl = θg ≈ 270 K for both glasses and liquids. This implies a
The values of αg, αl and Tg used in the present work are listed in Sup-            fixed ratio αl/αg = α0,l/α0,g. Using α0,l ≈ 1.4 × 10−3 K−1 and α0,g ≈ 4.3 × 10−4 K−1,
plementary Table 1, and details on their selection and reliability are             obtained from the fits, this ratio is approximately 3, which should
provided in Supplementary Notes 3 and 4. The included materials can be             be universally valid for all glass-formers. To check this prediction,
classified as molecular glass-formers (alcohols, van der Waals-bonded              Fig. 2 shows αl/αg versus Tg for those materials where both expansion


Nature Physics
Article                                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5


                    Molecular                                                    of ever larger numbers of molecules upon cooling a liquid towards its
                    Ionic                                                        glass transition2,3,53. Within this framework, higher m values (charac-
           15
                    Polymers                                                     terizing so-called fragile glass-formers1,4,43) mean that this increase is
                    Metallic                                                     stronger than for small m values (‘strong’ glass-formers).
                    Network silicates
                                                                                       The stronger Tg dependence of αg compared with equation
                    Network borates
           10                                                                    (2), observed in the present work, then could be due to this effec-
   αl/αg




                    Network others
                                                                                 tive energy barrier enhancement. The glass temperatures of the
                                                                                 more fragile materials in the upper left part of Fig. 1e are larger than
           5                                                                     expected from their pair potential depth alone, because, to liquify
                                                                                 these glasses, more energy has to be invested to break up their
                                                                                 cooperatively rearranging regions. Within this scenario, Tg ∝ mU0
           0                                                                     instead of Tg ∝ U0 may be tentatively assumed. In contrast, the relation
                0        200        400    600      800       1,000      1,200
                                                                                 αg ∝ 1/U0 should be unaffected by cooperativity as the thermal expan-
                                          Tg (K)
                                                                                 sion in a solid glass is governed by vibrational motions within the
Fig. 2 | Ratio of the thermal expansion coefficients measured in the liquid      local pair potential only (Fig. 1b), for which cooperative motions play
and glass phases. Leaving the borate glasses aside, this ratio is essentially    no role. Therefore, the proportionality αg ∝ 1/Tg should be invalid,
independent of the glass temperature and on the order of 3 for all systems       in accordance with experimental observation (Fig. 1e) and, instead,
(the horizontal dashed line indicates the average value of 2.6).
                                                                                 the quantity αg /m should be proportional to 1/Tg. This expectation
                                                                                 indeed is well fulfilled, as demonstrated by the filled symbols in
                                                                                 Fig. 1e, showing αg /m versus Tg for those systems where m is known
                                                                                 (Supplementary Table 1). This finding corroborates the correct-
coefficients are available. Indeed, this ratio is close to 3 for a large         ness of the assumption Tg ∝ mU0 mentioned above. The only clear
variety of glass-formers belonging to different material classes. Only           exception is the data point for pure SiO2, which is also exceptional by
the borate glasses reveal much larger ratios, in accord with their known         having the highest Tg and smallest αg of all systems and an anomaly
anomalous expansion behaviour19,48,49.                                           in its temperature-dependent density54 similar to water.
                                                                                       Notably, a corresponding cooperativity correction also is able to
Discussion and concluding remarks                                                linearize the thermal expansion coefficients of the liquid state (Fig. 1d,
We have shown that the thermal expansion data of about 200                       filled symbols). That is, we find αl/m ∝ 1/Tg. Thus, equations (2) and (3)
glass-formers reveal a clear correlation with the glass temperature,             should be replaced by:
which holds across vastly different material classes. However, the
data are clearly inconsistent with αTg = const., expected when assum-                                  (ai /m)Tg = const.     (i = g, l) .                 (4)
ing a Lindemann-like scenario for the glass transition. This expecta-
tion is met neither for the glass, nor for the liquid phase, where it was               Interestingly, a similar relation is an outcome of the free vol-
theoretically predicted40,41,44. Instead, we find a much stronger decrease       ume model, assuming that α is the thermal expansion coefficient
of α with Tg for both states. This only becomes obvious when consid-             due to free volume55. Notably, the above-mentioned ratio Tg ≈ 2/3Tm
ering data covering a broad range of glass temperatures and thermal              is incompatible with the simultaneous validity of equations (1) and
expansion coefficients.                                                          (4), considering that αg ≈ αc. As this ratio is quite well established18–22,
     The invalidity of equation (2) implies that at least one of the intui-      some doubts about the validity of equation (1) may arise. It certainly
tive proportionalities Tg ∝ U0 and 1/αg ∝ U0 (analogous to the crystal           would be interesting to check this relation for a similarly broad data
case; see the introduction and Supplementary Note 1) must be invalid             base as in the present work.
for glasses. A clue is given when considering that U0, the depth of the                 Finally, it is remarkable that αl and αg (or αl/m and αg/m) exhibit the
pair potential, essentially corresponds to the interparticle binding             same dependence on glass temperature and are related by a universal
strength. As materials with very weak (van der Waals) and strong (cova-          factor of about 3, characterizing the increase of the thermal expansion
lent) bonds are included here, it should vary by about two or three              when crossing the glass transition upon heating. A factor of 2–4 was
decades. This is in accordance with the observed variation of αg (Fig. 1e),      occasionally quoted in literature33,34, and here we document a fac-
that is, consistent with 1/αg ∝ U0. In contrast, Tg varies by 1.2 decades        tor close to 3 that is valid for the complete universe of glass-forming
only, and thus, Tg ∝ U0 should be invalid. Therefore, we conclude that           materials, leaving the borates aside. As discussed above, it is reason-
the transition temperature from glass to liquid depends much more                able that the vibrational contributions to the thermal expansion are
weakly on the microscopic quantity U0 than for the crystal–liquid                essentially the same in the glass and liquid states (Fig. 1c), ascribing the
transition for which Tm ∝ U0. This marked difference seems somehow               observed higher αl to additional configurational contributions arising
to reflect the fact that the glass transition differs qualitatively from         above Tg (refs. 33,34). Then, αl/αg ≈ 3 implies that the configurational
crystal melting. This can be rationalized as follows:                            part is universally two times higher than the vibrational one, which
     Notably, the systems with small Tg and high α, lying in the upper left      seems surprising when considering their different physical origins.
part of Fig. 1e (for example, the polymers and molecular materials), gen-        It is reasonable that the thermal expansion is related to the maximum
erally exhibit higher fragility index m than those with high Tg and small        possible displacement of a particle during the corresponding motion
α such as the metallic or network systems52 (Supplementary Table 1               (either vibrational and/or configurational). If one expands the third
and Supplementary Fig. 2). m is a quantitative measure of the deviation          derivative of the pair potential versus distance (the thermal expansion
of a material’s viscosity η from the Arrhenius temperature depend-               coefficient) from one to three dimensions, assuming still the same
ence, η ∝ exp[E/(kBT)] (where kB is the Boltzmann constant), expected            local process, and adds the configurational (many body) motions, one
when assuming canonical thermally activated particle dynamics with a             can rationalize the detected factor of 3 (see Supplementary Note 6 for
well-defined energy barrier E (refs. 42,43). Such deviations are a hallmark      details). Thus, the enhancement of α above Tg essentially seems to be a
feature of glass-forming liquids and strongly material dependent, being          dimensionality effect. Locally, we propose here the cross-over from a
most pronounced, for example, in many polymers and molecular liq-                two-body interaction (vibrations on the picosecond time scale) to an
uids1,4,43. They are often ascribed to an increase of the effective energy       additional many-body process (configurational changes on a much
barrier with decreasing temperature, caused by the cooperative motion            longer time scale).


Nature Physics
Article                                                                                               https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5

     The found universal correlation of αg and Tg, involving the degree       19. Scholze, H. Glas: Natur, Struktur und Eigenschaften (Springer,
of cooperativity of particle motion in different material classes, quanti-        1988).
fied by the fragility m, obviously is a typical, so far unnoticed, property   20. Van Uitert, L. G. Relations between melting point, glass transition
of glasses. It markedly differs from the much simpler behaviour of                temperature, and thermal expansion for inorganic crystals and
crystalline systems, which can be explained in terms of the Lindemann             glasses. J. Appl. Phys. 50, 8052–8061 (1979).
criterion. This and the unexpected universal factor relating α in the         21. Malinovsky, V. K. & Novikov, V. N. The nature of the glass transition
glass to that in the liquid put severe constraints on existing and future         and the excess low energy density of vibrational states in glasses.
models of the glass transition. Finally, the present results have predic-         J. Phys. Condens. Matter 4, L139–L143 (1992).
tive power for engineering glassy materials by design: one will be able       22. Angell, C. A., Ngai, K. L., McKenna, G. B., McMillan, P. F. & Martin,
to predict Tg in a bottom-up way based on interatomic/intermolecular              S. W. Relaxation in glass forming liquids and amorphous solids.
parameters and to deduce it from a simple thermal expansion meas-                 J. Appl. Phys. 88, 3113–3157 (2000).
urement. Conversely, a simple Tg measurement will yield a wealth of           23. Lu, Z. & Lia, J. Correlation between average melting temperature
information about atomic-scale composition and thermal properties.                and glass transition temperature in metallic glasses. Appl. Phys.
                                                                                  Lett. 94, 061913 (2009).
Online content                                                                24. Xia, X. Y. & Wolynes, P. G. Fragilities of liquids predicted from the
Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting sum-               random first order transition theory of glasses. Proc. Natl Acad.
maries, source data, extended data, supplementary information,                    Sci. USA 97, 2990–2994 (2000).
acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contri-          25. Larini, L., Ottochian, A., De Michele, C. & Leporini, D. Universal
butions and competing interests; and statements of data and code avail-           scaling between structural relaxation and vibrational dynamics
ability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5.              in glass-forming liquids and polymers. Nat. Phys. 4, 42–45
                                                                                  (2007).
References                                                                    26. Chakravarty, C., Debenedetti, P. G. & Stillinger, F. H. Lindemann
1.    Angell, C. A. Formation of glasses from liquids and biopolymers.            measures for the solid–liquid phase transition. J. Chem. Phys. 126,
      Science 267, 1924–1935 (1995).                                              204508 (2007).
2.    Debenedetti, P. G. & Stillinger, F. H. Supercooled liquids and the      27. Zaccone, A. & Terentjev, E. Disorder-assisted melting and
      glass transition. Nature 410, 259–267 (2001).                               the glass transition in amorphous solids. Phys. Rev. Lett. 110,
3.    Kivelson, S. A. & Tarjus, G. In search of a theory of supercooled           178002 (2013).
      liquids. Nat. Mater. 7, 831–833 (2008).                                 28. Sanditov, D. S. A criterion for the glass–liquid transition.
4.    Ediger, M. D., Angell, C. A. & Nagel, S. R. Supercooled liquids and         J. Non-Cryst. Solids 385, 148–152 (2014).
      glasses. J. Phys. Chem. 100, 13200–13212 (1996).                        29. Schmelzer, J. W. P. & Gutzow, I. The Prigogine–Defay ratio
5.    Dyre, J. C. Colloquium: the glass transition and elastic models of          revisited. J. Chem. Phys. 125, 184511 (2006).
      glass-forming liquids. Rev. Mod. Phys. 78, 953–972 (2006).              30. Simha, R. Transitions, relaxations, and thermodynamics in the
6.    Kirkpatrick, T. R. & Wolynes, P. G. Stable and metastable states            glassy state. Polym. Eng. Sci. 20, 82–86 (1980).
      in mean-field Potts and structural glasses. Phys. Rev. B 36,            31. Zarzycki, J. Glasses and the Vitreous State (Cambridge Univ.
      8552–8564 (1987).                                                           Press, 1991).
7.    Albert, S. et al. Fifth-order susceptibility unveils growth of          32. Kauzmann, W. The nature of the glassy state and the behavior of
      thermodynamic amorphous order in glass-formers. Science 352,                liquids at low temperatures. Chem. Rev. 43, 219–256 (1948).
      1308–1311 (2016).                                                       33. Stillinger, F. H. & Debenedetti, P. G. Distinguishing vibrational and
8.    Angell, C. A. & Rao, K. J. Configurational excitations in condensed         structural equilibration contributions to thermal expansion.
      matter, and the “bond lattice” model for the liquid-glass                   J. Phys. Chem. B 103, 4052–4059 (1999).
      transition. J. Chem. Phys. 57, 470–481 (1972).                          34. Johari, G. P. Determining vibrational heat capacity and thermal
9.    Chandler, D. & Garrahan, J. P. Dynamics on the way to forming               expansivity and their change at glass–liquid transition.
      glass: bubbles in space–time. Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. 61,                    J. Chem. Phys. 126, 114901 (2007).
      191–217 (2010).                                                         35. Davies, R. O. & Jones, G. O. Thermodynamic and kinetic properties
10.   Cahn, R. W. Melting from within. Nature 513, 582–583 (2001).                of glasses. Adv. Phys. 2, 370–410 (1953).
11.   Lindemann, F. A. The calculation of molecular vibration                 36. Potuzak, M., Mauro, J. C., Kiczenski, T. J., Ellison, A. J. &
      frequencies. Phys. Z. 11, 609–612 (1910).                                   Allan, D. C. Resolving the vibrational and configurational
12.   Gilvarry, J. J. The Lindemann and Grüneisen laws. Phys. Rev. 102,           contributions to thermal expansion in isobaric glass-forming
      308–316 (1956).                                                             systems. J. Chem. Phys. 133, 091102 (2010).
13.   Stillinger, F. H. & Weber, T. A. Lindemann melting criterion and the    37. Stillinger, F. H. A topographic view of supercooled liquids and
      Gaussian core model. Phys. Rev. B 22, 3790–3794 (1980).                     glass formation. Science 265, 1935–1939 (1995).
14.   Granato, A. V., Joncich, D. M. & Khonik, V. A. Melting, thermal         38. Stillinger, F. H. & Weber, T. A. Computer simulation of local
      expansion, and the Lindemann rule for elemental substances.                 order in condensed phases of silicon. Phys. Rev. B 31,
      Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 171911 (2010).                                        5262–5271 (1985).
15.   Lawson, A. C. Physics of the Lindemann melting rule. Philos. Mag.       39. Laviolette, R. A. & Stillinger, F. H. Multidimensional geometric
      89, 1757–1770 (2009).                                                       aspects of the solid liquid transition in simple substances.
16.   MacDonald, D. K. C. & Roy, S. K. Vibrational anharmonicity and              J. Chem. Phys. 83, 4079–4085 (1985).
      lattice thermal properties, II. Phys. Rev. 97, 673–676 (1955).          40. Wool, R. P. Twinkling fractal theory of the glass transition.
17.   Shi, B., Yang, S., Liu, S. & Jin, P. Lindemann-like rule between            J. Polym. Sci. B 46, 2765–2778 (2008).
      average thermal expansion coefficient and glass transition              41. Krausser, J., Samwer, K. H. & Zaccone, A. Interatomic repulsion
      temperature for metallic glasses. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 503–504,             softness directly controls the fragility of supercooled metallic
      194–196 (2019).                                                             melts. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 112, 13762–13767 (2015).
18.   Sakka, S. & MacKenzie, J. D. Relation between apparent glass            42. Plazek, D. J. & Ngai, K. L. Correlation of polymer segmental
      transition temperature and liquids temperature for inorganic                chain dynamics with temperature-dependent time-scale shifts.
      glasses. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 6, 145–162 (1971).                            Macromolecules 24, 1222–1224 (1991).


Nature Physics
Article                                                                                              https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5

43. Böhmer, R. & Angell, C. A. Correlations of the nonexponentiality        53. Bauer, T., Lunkenheimer, P. & Loidl, A. Cooperativity and the
    and state dependence of mechanical relaxations with bond                    freezing of molecular motion at the glass transition. Phys. Rev.
    connectivity in Ge-As-Se supercooled liquids. Phys. Rev. B 45,              Lett. 111, 225702 (2013).
    10091–10094 (1992).                                                     54. Brückner, R. Properties and structure of vitreous silica. I.
44. Lunkenheimer, P., Humann, F., Loidl, A. & Samwer, K.                        J. Non-Cryst. Solids 5, 123–175 (1970).
    Universal correlations between the fragility and the interparticle      55. Novikov, V. N. & Sokolov, A. P. Temperature dependence of
    repulsion of glass-forming liquids. J. Chem. Phys. 153,                     structural relaxation in glass-forming liquids and polymers.
    124507 (2020).                                                              Entropy 24, 1101 (2022).
45. Simha, R. & Boyer, R. F. On a general relation involving the glass
    temperature and coefficients of expansion of polymers. J. Chem.         Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to
    Phys. 37, 1003–1007 (1962).                                             jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
46. Boyer, R. F. & Simha, R. Relation between expansion coefficients
    and glass temperature: a reply. Polym. Lett. 11, 33–44 (1973).          Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
47. Sharma, S. C., Mandelkern, L. & Stehling, F. C. Relation between        Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,
    expansion coefficients and glass temperature. Polym. Lett. 10,          adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format,
    345–356 (1972).                                                         as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the
48. Shelby, J. E. Thermal expansion of alkali borate glasses.               source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate
    J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 66, 225–227 (1983).                                  if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this
49. Shelby, J. E. Properties and structure of B2O3–GeO2 glasses.            article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless
    J. Appl. Phys. 45, 5272–5277 (1974).                                    indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not
50. Duffy, J. A. & Grant, R. J. Effect of temperature on optical basicity   included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended
    in the sodium oxide–boric oxide glass system. J. Phys. Chem. 79,        use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted
    2780 (1975).                                                            use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright
51. Klyuev, V. P. Viscosity and density of boron trioxide. Glass Phys.      holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.
    Chem. 31, 749–759 (2005).                                               org/licenses/by/4.0/.
52. Böhmer, R., Ngai, K. L., Angell, C. A. & Plazek, D. J. Nonexponential
    relaxations in strong and fragile glass formers. J. Chem. Phys. 99,     © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited
    4201–4209 (1993).                                                       2023




Nature Physics
Article                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5

Data availability                                                          Funding
The data that support the findings of this study are available in          Open access funding provided by Universitaet Augsburg.
Supplementary Table 1.
                                                                           Competing interests
Acknowledgements                                                           The authors declare no competing interests.
We thank G. Johari, F. Stillinger and D. Vollhardt for stimulating
discussions. K.S. acknowledges constant support over many years            Additional information
by the DFG Sa/337 via the Leibniz Program and Caltech, Pasadena,           Supplementary information The online version
CA via the visiting associate program. B.R. is grateful for support        contains supplementary material available at
from the VILLUM Foundation’s Matter Grant (no. 16515). A.Z.                https://doi.org/10.1038/s41567-022-01920-5.
gratefully acknowledges funding from the European Union
through Horizon Europe ERC, grant no. 101043968 ‘Multimech’                Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to
and from the US Army Research Office through contract no.                  Peter Lunkenheimer.
W911NF-22-2-0256.
                                                                           Peer review information Nature Physics thanks Giancarlo Franzese,
Author contributions                                                       Vladimir Novikov and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their
K.S. initiated this work. P.L. and B.R. collected the experimental data.   contribution to the peer review of this work.
P.L. analysed the data and prepared the figures. A.L., P.L., K.S. and
A.Z. wrote the manuscript. All authors discussed the results and           Reprints and permissions information is available at
commented on the manuscript.                                               www.nature.com/reprints.




Nature Physics

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
