# {ADF806C0-C69F-4FD7-8006-5DB26A5FB258}_0

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 03:09:09  
**Original File:** {ADF806C0-C69F-4FD7-8006-5DB26A5FB258}_0.pdf

---

## Content

AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO SOLICITATION

                         CITY OF MESA AGREEMENT 2020206
                MASONRY WALL CLEANING, PAINTING, AND REPAIR SERVICES

CITY OF MESA, Arizona (“City”)
    Department Name         City of Mesa – Purchasing Division
    Mailing Address         P.O. Box 1466
                            Mesa, AZ 85211-1466
    Delivery Address        20 East Main St, Suite 450
                            Mesa, AZ 85201
    Attention               Brandy Andersen, MPA, CPPO, CPPB
                            Procurement Officer II
    E-Mail                  Brandy.Andersen@MesaAZ.gov
    Telephone               (480) 644-6426

   With a copy to:   City of Mesa – Transportation, Field Ops
                     Attn: Deryl Smith, Transportation Field Ops Supervisor
                     P.O. Box 1466
                     Mesa, AZ 85211-1466
                     Deryl.Smith@MesaAZ.gov


                                              AND

GHASTER PAINTING AND COATINGS (“Contractor”)
   Mailing Address     3120 W. Carefree Hwy Suite 1 PMB 347
                       Phoenix, AZ 85086
   Remit to Address    3120 W. Carefree Hwy Suite 1 PMB 347
                       Phoenix, AZ 85086
   Attention           Gary Ghaster, Estimator
   E-Mail              gary@ghasterpaintinginc.com
   Telephone           602-435-1902
   Facsimile           602-435-1902




Page 1 of 23                                                 Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
                    CITY OF MESA AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO SOLICITATION

This agreement pursuant to solicitation (“Agreement”) is entered into this 14th day of September, 2020, by
and between the City of Mesa, Arizona, an Arizona municipal corporation (“City”), and Ghaster Painting
and Coatings, an Arizona company (“Contractor”). The City and Contractor are each a “Party” to the
Agreement or together are “Parties” to the Agreement.

                                                RECITALS

A.      The City issued solicitation number 2020206 (“Solicitation”) for MASONRY WALL CLEANING,
        PAINTING, AND REPAIR SERVICES, to which Contractor provided a response (“Response”); and

B.      The City Selected Contractor’s Response as being in the best interest of the City and wishes to
        engage Contractor in providing the services/materials described in the Solicitation and Response.

In consideration of the reciprocal promises contained in the Agreement, and for other valuable and good
consideration, which the Parties acknowledge the receipt and sufficiency of, the Parties agree to the
following Terms & Conditions.

                                         TERMS & CONDITIONS

1.      Term. This Agreement is for a term beginning on September 15, 2020 and ending on September
        14, 2023. The use of the word “Term” in the Agreement includes the aforementioned period as
        well as any applicable extensions or renewals in accordance with this Section 1.

        1.1     Renewals. On the mutual written agreement of the Parties, the Term may be renewed up
                to a maximum of two (2) years. Any renewal(s) will be a continuation of the same terms
                and conditions as in effect immediately prior to the expiration of the then-current term.

        1.2     Extension for Procurement Processes. Upon the expiration of the Term of this
                Agreement, including any renewals permitted herein, at the City’s sole discretion this
                Agreement may be extended on a month-to-month basis for a maximum of six (6) months
                to allow for the City’s procurement processes in the selection of a vendor to provide the
                services/materials provided under this Agreement. The City will notify the Contractor in
                writing of its intent to extend the Agreement at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the
                expiration of the Term. Any extension under this Subsection 1.2 will be a continuation of
                the same terms and conditions as in effect immediately prior to the expiration of the then-
                current term.

2.      Scope of Work. The Contractor will provide the necessary staff, services and associated
        resources to provide the City with the services, materials, and obligations attached to this
        Agreement as Exhibit A (“Scope of Work”) Contractor will be responsible for all costs and expenses
        incurred by Contractor that are incident to the performance of the Scope of Work unless otherwise
        stated in Exhibit A. Contractor will supply all equipment and instrumentalities necessary to perform
        the Scope of Work. If set forth in Exhibit A, the City will provide Contractor’s personnel with
        adequate workspace and such other related facilities as may be required by Contractor to carry out
        the Scope of Work.

        The Agreement is based on the Solicitation and Response which are hereby incorporated by
        reference into the Agreement as if written out and included herein. In addition to the requirements
        specifically set forth in the Scope of Work, the Parties acknowledge and agree that the Contractor
        shall perform in accordance with all terms, conditions, specifications and other requirements set
        forth within the Solicitation and Response unless modified herein.

3.      Orders. Orders be placed with the Contractor by either a: (i) Purchase Order when for a one-time
        purchase; (ii) Notice to Proceed, or (iii) Delivery Order off of a Master Agreement for Requirement

Page 2 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       Contract where multiple as-needed orders will be placed with the Contractor. The City may use
       the Internet to communicate with Contractor and to place orders as permitted under this Agreement

4.     Document Order of Precedence. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the
       body of the Agreement, the Exhibits, the Solicitation, and Response, the language of the
       documents will control in the following order.

               a.      Agreement
               b.      Exhibits
                       1. Mesa Standard Terms & Conditions
                       2. Scope of Work
                       3. Other Exhibits not listed above
               c.      Solicitation including any addenda
               d.      Contractor Response

5.     Payment.

       5.1     General. Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the City will pay Contractor the
               sum(s) described in Exhibit B (“Pricing”) in consideration of Contractor’s performance of
               the Scope of Work during the Term.

       5.2     Prices. All pricing shall be firm for the Term and all extensions or renewals of the Term
               except where otherwise provided in this Agreement and include all costs of the Contractor
               providing the materials/service including transportation, insurance and warranty costs. No
               fuel surcharges will be accepted unless allowed in this Agreement. The City shall not be
               invoiced at prices higher than those stated in the Agreement.

               The Contractor further agrees that any reductions in the price of the materials or services
               covered by this Agreement will apply to the undelivered balance. The Contractor shall
               promptly notify the City of such price reductions.

               No price modifications will be accepted without proper request by the Contractor and
               response by the City’s Purchasing Division.

       5.3     Price Adjustment. Any requests for reasonable price adjustments must be submitted in
               accordance with this Section 5.3. Requests for adjustment in cost of labor and/or materials
               must be supported by appropriate documentation. There is no guarantee the City will
               accept a price adjustment therefore Contractor should be prepared for the Pricing to be
               firm over the Term of the Agreement. The City is only willing to entertain price adjustments
               based on an increase to Contractor’s actual expenses or other reasonable adjustment in
               providing the services/materials under the Agreement. If the City agrees to the adjusted
               price terms, the City shall issue written approval of the change.

               During the sixty (60) day period prior to Contract expiration date of the Agreement, the
               Contractor may submit a written request to the City to allow an increase to the prices in an
               amount not to exceed the twelve (12) month change in the Consumer Price Index for All
               Urban Consumers (CPI-U), US City Average, All Items, Not Seasonally Adjusted as
               published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics
               (http://www.bls.gov/cpi/home.htm). The City shall review the request for adjustment and
               respond in writing; such response and approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

       5.4     Renewal and Extension Pricing. Any extension of the Agreement will be at the same
               pricing as the initial Term. If the Agreement is renewed in accordance with Section 1,
               pricing may be adjusted for amounts other than inflation that represent actual costs to the
               Contractor based on the mutual agreement of the parties. The Contractor may submit a
               request for a price adjustment along with appropriate supporting documentation

Page 3 of 23                                                     Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
              demonstrating the cost to the Contractor. Renewal prices shall be firm for the term of the
              renewal period and may be adjusted thereafter as outlined in the previous section. There
              is no guarantee the City will accept a price adjustment.

       5.5    Invoices. Payment will be made to Contractor following the City’s receipt of a properly
              completed invoice. No terms set forth in any invoice, purchase order or similar document
              issued by Contractor will be deemed accepted by the City; the terms of the contractual
              relationship between the Parties are as set forth in this Agreement. Any issues regarding
              billing or invoicing must be directed to the City Department/Division requesting the service
              or material from the Contractor. A properly completed invoice should contain, at a
              minimum, all of the following:

              a.    Contractor name, address, and contact information;
              b.    City billing information;
              c.    City contract number as listed on the first page of the Agreement;
              d.    Invoice number and date;
              e.    Payment terms;
              f.    Date of service or delivery;
              g.    Description of materials or services provided;
              h.    If materials provided, the quantity delivered and pricing of each unit;
              i.    Applicable Taxes; and
              j.    Total amount due.

       5.6    Payment of Funds. Contractor acknowledges the City may, at its option and where
              available use a Procurement Card/e-Payables to make payment for orders under the
              Agreement. Otherwise, payment will be through a traditional method of a check or
              Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) as available.

       5.7    Disallowed Costs, Overpayment. If at any time the City determines that a cost for which
              payment was made to Contractor is a disallowed cost, such as an overpayment or a charge
              for materials/service not in accordance with the Agreement, the City will notify Contractor
              in writing of the disallowance; such notice will state the means of correction which may be,
              but is not limited to, adjustment of any future claim/invoice submitted by Contractor in the
              amount of the disallowance, or to require repayment of the disallowed amount by
              Contractor. Contractor will be provided with the opportunity to respond to the notice.

6.     Insurance.

        6.1   Contractor must obtain and maintain at its expense throughout the term of Contractor’s
              agreement, at a minimum, the types and amounts of insurance set forth in this Section 6
              from insurance companies authorized to do business in the State of Arizona; the insurance
              must cover the materials/service to be provided by Contractor under the Agreement. For
              any insurance required under the Agreement, Contractor will name the City of Mesa, its
              agents, representatives, officials, volunteers, officers, elected officials, and employees as
              additional insured, as evidenced by providing either an additional insured endorsement or
              proper insurance policy excerpts.

        6.2   Nothing in this Section 6 limits Contractor’s responsibility to the City. The insurance
              requirements herein are minimum requirements for the Agreement and in no way limit any
              indemnity promise(s) contained in the Agreement.

        6.3   The City does not warrant the minimum limits contained herein are sufficient to protect
              Contractor and subcontractor(s) from liabilities that might arise out of performance under
              the Agreement by Contractor, its agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractor(s).
              Contractor is encouraged to purchase additional insurance as Contractor determines may
              be necessary.

Page 4 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
        6.4    Each insurance policy required under the Agreement must be in effect at or prior to the
               execution of the Agreement and remain in effect for the term of the Agreement.

        6.5    Prior to the execution of the Agreement, Contractor will provide the City with a Certificate
               of Insurance (using an appropriate “ACORD” or equivalent certificate) signed by the issuer
               with applicable endorsements. The City reserves the right to request additional copies of
               any or all of the policies, endorsements, or notices relating thereto required under the
               Agreement.

        6.6    When the City requires a Certificate of Insurance to be furnished, Contractor's insurance
               is primary of all other sources available. When the City is a certificate holder and/or an
               additional insured, Contractor agrees no policy will expire, be canceled, or be materially
               changed to affect the coverage available without advance written notice to the City.

        6.7    The policies required by the Agreement must contain a waiver of transfer rights of recovery
               (waiver of subrogation) against the City, its agents, representatives, officials, volunteers,
               officers, elected officials, and employees for any claims arising out of the work of
               Contractor.

        6.8    All insurance certificates and applicable endorsements are subject to review and approval
               by the City's Risk Management Division.

        6.9    Types and Amounts of Insurance. Contractor must obtain and retain throughout the
               term of the Agreement, at a minimum, the following:

                 6.9.1    Worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with the provisions of Arizona
                          law. If Contractor operates with no employees, Contractor must provide the City
                          with written proof Contractor has no employees. If employees are hired during
                          the course of this Agreement, Contractor must procure worker’s compensations
                          in accordance with Arizona law.

                 6.9.2    The Contractor shall maintain at all times during the term of this contract, a
                          minimum amount of $1 million per occurrence/$2 million aggregate Commercial
                          General Liability insurance, including Contractual Liability. For General Liability
                          insurance, the City of Mesa, their agents, officials, volunteers, officers, elected
                          officials or employees shall be named as additional insured, as evidenced by
                          providing an additional insured endorsement.

                 6.9.3    Automobile liability, bodily injury and property damage with a limit of $1 million
                          per occurrence including owned, hired and non-owned autos.

7.     Requirements Contract. Contractor acknowledges and agrees the Agreement is a requirements
       contract; the Agreement does not guarantee any purchases will be made (minimum or maximum).
       Orders will only be placed when the City identifies a need and issues a purchase order or a written
       notice to proceed. The City reserves the right to cancel purchase orders or a notice to proceed
       within a reasonable period of time of issuance; any such cancellation will be in writing. Should a
       purchase order or notice to proceed be canceled, the City agrees to reimburse Contractor for any
       actual and documented costs incurred by Contractor. The City will not reimburse Contractor for
       any avoidable costs incurred after receipt of cancellation including, but not limited to, lost profits,
       shipment of product, or performance of services.

8.     Notices. All notices to be given pursuant to the Agreement will be delivered to the Contractor as
       listed on Page 1 of this Agreement. Notice will be delivered pursuant to the requirements set forth
       the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions that is attached to the Agreement as Exhibit C.



Page 5 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
9.     Representations of Contractor. To the best of Contractor’s knowledge, Contractor agrees that:

       a. Contractor has no obligations, legal or otherwise, inconsistent with the terms of the Agreement
          or with Contractor’s undertaking of the relationship with the City;

       b. Performance of the services called for by the Agreement do not and will not violate any
          applicable law, rule, regulation, or any proprietary or other right of any third party;

       c.   Contractor will not use in the performance of Contractor’s responsibilities under the Agreement
            any proprietary information or trade secret of a former employer of its employees (other than
            City, if applicable); and

       d. Contractor has not entered into and will not enter into any agreement, whether oral or written,
          in conflict with the Agreement.

10.    Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions. Exhibit C to the Agreement is the Mesa Standard Terms
       and Conditions as modified by the Parties, which are incorporated by reference into the Agreement
       as though fully set forth herein. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the
       Agreement and the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions, the language of the Agreement will
       control. The Parties or a Party are referred to as a “party” or “parties” in the Mesa Standard Terms
       and Conditions. The Term is referred to as the “term” in the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions.

11.    Counterparts and Facsimile or Electronic Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in two
       (2) or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of which, taken together,
       will constitute one agreement. A facsimile or other electronically delivered signature to the
       Agreement will be deemed an original and binding upon the Party against whom enforcement is
       sought.

12.    Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits. All Recitals and Exhibits to the Agreement are hereby
       incorporated by reference into the Agreement as if written out and included herein. In the event of
       any inconsistency between the terms of the body of the Agreement and the Exhibits, the language
       of the Agreement will control.

       Exhibits to this Agreement are the following:

       o    (A) Scope of Work / Technical Specifications
       o    (B) Pricing
       o    (C) Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions

13.    Attorneys’ Fees. The prevailing Party in any litigation arising out of the Agreement will be entitled
       to the recovery of its reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, and other litigation related costs and
       fees from the other Party.

14.    Additional Acts. The Parties agree to execute promptly such other documents and to perform
       such other acts as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of the
       Agreement.

15.    Headings. The headings of the Agreement are for reference only and will not limit or define the
       meaning of any provision of the Agreement.




Page 6 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
Page 7 of 23        Ghaster Painting and Coatings
Contract #2020206
                                        City Acceptance of Offer
              The below document will be executed when Agreement is finalized and awarded.

ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER:
The offer is hereby accepted. The Contractor is now bound to sell the materials or services specified in the
Contract, including all terms and conditions, specifications, addenda, etc. This contract shall henceforth be
referred to as Contract Number 2020206.
                               Digitally signed by Edward
                               Quedens
                               DN: cn=Edward Quedens, o=Ctiy
Awarded this ____ day of ______________________,
                               of Mesa, Arizona, ou=Business     2020.
                               Services,
                               email=ed.quedens@mesaaz.gov,
                               c=US
                               Date: 2020.09.16 15:31:06 -07'00'
                               Adobe Acrobat version:
_________________________________________________
                               2020.012.20043

Edward Quedens, CPPO, C.P.M.
As Business Services Director



REVIEWED BY:

                                         9/15/2020
By:
      Brandy Andersen, MPA, CPPO, CPPB
      Procurement Officer II




Page 8 of 23                                                             Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
                                              EXHIBIT A
                                           SCOPE OF WORK

1.     SCOPE OF WORK: Work will be performed at a variety of locations within City limits on an as
       needed basis. Locations will include, but not be limited to: City right-of-way and public property.

       All quantities listed are estimates only. Quantities represent the City’s best estimate of current
       requirements, but will not bind the City to accept, request or pay for services more than the City’s
       actual needs for any items and/or for which funds are not available.

       Unit pricing will be inclusive of all labor, equipment, paint, materials, and supplies needed to
       complete required work.

2.     MULTIPLE AWARDS: This contract has been awarded to a primary and secondary Contractor.
       The primary Contractor will provide masonry wall cleaning, painting, and repairs per the City’s
       requirements until such time that an authorized City Representative determines it is in the City’s
       best interest to demand performance from the secondary Contractor (Ghaster Painting and
       Coatings. This decision may be based upon performance and/or the ability of the primary
       Contractor to provide acceptable service within the City’s time requirements and the decision to
       utilize the secondary Contractor will be final and conclusive.

       No Contractor will be guaranteed any minimum or maximum amount of work.

3.     PROCESS OF WORK: A City Representative will determine color and sheen of paint to be used.
       A list of RAL colors will be provided by a City Representative. Paint manufacturer, color and sheen
       must be approved by City Representative prior to work commencing. Contractor will use care to
       protect surrounding areas from overspray and spillage using appropriate and recommended
       methods. Any damage caused to private or public property directly caused by the painting process
       is the responsibility of the Contractor. All costs involved in the preparation for painting including
       masking, shielding and sheeting, should be included in the unit cost of the line item.

       The unit of measure for painting and repair will be in square feet (sf). The City will provide the
       square footage for each job from its records. It is in the Contractor’s best interest to verify the
       quantity given and any discrepancy should be reported promptly to the City Representative for
       reconciliation. When a wall has a decorative/accent feature such as split face block, no additional
       compensation will be provided and the line item for the majority of the surface area will be used.
       However, a 10% increase in the quantity will be given to adjust for the additional paint required for
       the extra surface area.

       Unit pricing will be inclusive of all labor, equipment, paint, materials, and supplies needed to
       complete required work.

       3.1     Wall Preparation: Contractor will be required to prepare the surface of the masonry wall
               as to ensure proper paint and/or primer adhesion. All surfaces must be cured, clean, dry,
               and free from dirt, dust, rust, stains, grease, oil, mildew, wax, efflorescence, bond-breakers,
               and other contaminants. Remove all loose, peeling, or chalky paint by sanding, scraping,
               brushing or other appropriate methods. Repair all cracks, holes, and other surface
               imperfections with a suitable patching material. Repaired surfaces should then be sanded
               smooth or sanded to match existing surface texture and dusted clean. Glossy surfaces
               should be dulled to provide a roughened surface for good adhesion.

       3.2     Wall Power Washing & Preparation: Contractor may be requested to power wash the
               wall in addition to wall preparation listed in Section 3.1. If necessary, the use of hot water
               and a cleaning solution or phosphoric acid may be necessary to ensure proper paint and/or
               primer adhesion. The cost of wall preparation will be inclusive for this line item. Contractor



Page 9 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
              is responsible for all costs associated with this line item including providing water for the
              operation.

       3.3    Wall Priming: Contractor will apply primer to either unpainted or painted masonry walls.
              Contractor will use a 100% acrylic exterior concrete masonry primer (Dunn Edwards Super-
              LOC Premium or equivalent). Application of primer will be in accordance with
              manufacturer’s specifications.

       3.4    Wall Painting: Contractor will apply paint to an adequately prepared masonry wall.
              Contractor will use a 100% acrylic exterior concrete masonry paint (Dunn Edwards
              Evershield or equivalent). Contractor is responsible for adequate coverage and additional
              coats of paint may be required if any “ghosting” or uneven finish can be seen. There will
              be no extra compensation paid for additional coats of paint. Application of paint will be in
              accordance with manufacturer’s specifications. Multiple colors may be required; no extra
              compensation will be paid.

       3.5    Textured Wall Painting: Contractor will apply paint to an adequately prepared textured
              masonry wall. Contractor will use a 100% acrylic exterior concrete masonry paint (Dunn
              Edwards Evershield or equivalent). Contractor is responsible for adequate coverage and
              additional coats of paint may be required if any “ghosting” or uneven paint finish can be
              seen. There will be no extra compensation paid for additional coats of paint. Application
              of paint shall be in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications. Multiple colors may be
              required; no extra compensation will be paid.

       3.6    Wall Coating: Contractor will apply an elastomeric coating to an adequately prepared
              masonry wall. Contractor will use a 100% acrylic, flexible, long lasting elastomeric wall
              coating (Dunn Edwards Enduralastic 10 or equivalent). Application of elastomeric coating
              will be in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications.

       3.7    Wall Sealer: Contractor will apply a masonry sealer to an adequately prepared masonry
              wall. Contractor will use a 100% acrylic semi-transparent exterior concrete masonry sealer
              (Dunn Edwards Enduraseal or equivalent). Application of sealer will be in accordance with
              manufacturer’s specifications.

       3.8    Stucco Repair and Installation: Contractor may be required to repair a stucco/texture on
              a wall prior to painting or may be requested to install stucco/texture on an existing masonry
              wall. Application of texture will be in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications. The
              repairs do not include the incidental repairs that are required to be done under Section 3.1,
              the repairs in this category will be substantial in quantity or size to be considered not part
              of wall preparation.

       3.9    Masonry Wall Repair: Contractor may be required to repair an existing masonry wall.
              These repairs will be extensive or structural in nature and may require removal or
              demolition of damaged masonry block before new masonry block can be installed. Any
              repair made under this contract is exclusive of concrete footing. Contractor is responsible
              for all materials and any disposal required. Concrete Masonry Units (CMU) shall be
              installed per MAG 510, 511, 775 and 776 for masonry and grout.

       3.10   Extra Work: Contractor will be compensated hourly for wall painting and repair that is
              outside of the scope of listed line items. Contractor will need to coordinate this work with
              the City Representative and submit a written quote with a justification of why extra work is
              being requested. Hourly cost shall be inclusive of all labor, equipment, materials, and
              supplies needed to complete required work.




Page 10 of 23                                                    Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
4.     CONTACTOR RESPONSIBLITIES: Contractor will provide all equipment, paint, materials,
       supplies, disposal, and personnel necessary to provide cleaning, painting, and repairs to the City
       masonry walls.

       Contractor will be responsible for obtaining all necessary permits and will be responsible for
       complying with all federal, state, and local laws, regulations, statutes, codes, permits, etc.
       pertaining to work being performed.

5.     SCHEDULING OF WORK: A City Representative will notify the Contractor when the City needs
       preparation, priming, painting and repairs to the City masonry walls. Contractor will be able to
       respond electronically to a request within twenty-four (24) hours of notification from the City. The
       requested services will start no later than ten (10) business days after receiving the Notice to
       Proceed unless an alternative start date is mutually agreed upon in writing by a City Representative
       and the Contractor.

       Work schedule will be Monday – Thursday 6:00 am to 5:00 pm, excluding City observed holidays.
       Any work outside of the normal work schedule must be approved in advance by a City
       Representative.

       Contractor will provide the City Representative with a work schedule and must adhere to the
       schedule until project completion. Contractor must seek approval from a City Representative for
       changes to the schedule.

6.     WASTE DISPOSAL: Contractor will be responsible to dispose of waste at a legal disposal site
       that meets all federal, state, and local laws.

7.     WARRANTY: Contractor will fully warrant all work, paint, and labor from defects in material and
       workmanship. Should any defects appear in materials and workmanship, excluding ordinary wear
       and tear, Contractor will repair or replace such items immediately upon receipt of notice. The
       warranty period will be a minimum of one (1) year.

8.     PERSONNEL: Contractor will provide all management, accounts receivable staff, supervision, and
       labor necessary to efficiently and effectively provide cleaning, painting, and repairs to the City
       masonry walls within the terms of this contract. Contractor will designate one (1) specific individual
       that can communicate in English to oversee and inspect work performed by Contractor’s personnel
       assigned to this contract. This individual will be immediately available during work activities to
       receive communications from a City Representative.

       Contractor will utilize only trained, competent employees in the performance of this contract and
       shall act and work in a professional manner as to not bring undue criticism or embarrassment to
       the City. At the request of the City, Contractor will remove from assignment to this contact, any
       incompetent, abusive or disorderly employee, whether supervisory or non-supervisory.

9.     WORK AREA: Contractor will keep the work area safe for all residents, motorists, and pedestrians
       during the assigned project location. Contractor will, upon completion of the work, leave the public
       right-of-way/worksite in a neat and clean condition as determined by the City. No special payment
       will be made for this item and is to be included in the unit bid prices. Contractor will be responsible
       for preventing overspray to any surface, vehicle, or property.

10.    TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL: Contractor is responsible for complying with the City of
       Mesa Traffic Barricade Manual (latest revision): http://www.mesaaz.gov/business/barricading-
       temporary-traffic-control-permits and, where noted, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
       Devices (MUTCD, latest revision): https://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/kno_2009r1r2.htm.

       Contractor is responsible for furnishing all required temporary traffic control devices (i.e. signs,
       barricades, cones, etc.) for any planned restrictions to facilitate the work under this agreement. All

Page 11 of 23                                                      Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       costs for temporary traffic control used for any work under this agreement shall be included in the
       unit bid price. No additional payments will be made to the Contractor for temporary traffic control
       other than what is provided for in this document or as approved by the City.

       10.1    Temporary Traffic Control (TTC) Permit: Contractor will obtain a Temporary Traffic
               Control (TTC) Permit from the City of Mesa Transportation Department prior to restricting
               or closing any street, sidewalk, pedestrian pathway or alley within the City. This can be
               done with multiple Traffic Control Permits or with one permit which multiple configurations
               are defined and approved. There is no fee for Temporary Traffic Control Permits for this
               agreement. TTC Permit Applications will be submitted through the City of Mesa
               Transportation website http://www.mesaaz.gov/residents/transportation. Contractor may
               contact TTC Staff at (480) 644-4TTC (4882) or e-mail barricade@mesaaz.gov with any
               questions. For unique traffic control configurations, a Temporary Traffic Control Plan (TCP)
               may be required to be submitted with the TTC Permit Application.

       10.2    Restrictions and Closures: Unless otherwise specified in the approved TTC Permit, the
               following general requirements from the Traffic Barricade Manual shall apply:

               10.2.1 Traffic restrictions are not permitted on arterial/collector streets during the peak
                      traffic hours of 6:30 am to 8:30 am and 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm weekdays.

               10.2.2. During off-peak hours, the following number of through lanes must be kept open
                       to traffic.

                               If more than four (4) lanes exist:

                                    • Four (4) lanes (two (2) lanes each way) will remain open to traffic

                               If four (4) or fewer lanes exist:

                                    • Two (2) lanes (one (1) lane each way) will remain open to traffic

                               On one (1) way streets:

                                    • One (1) lane will remain open

               10.2.3 Left turn lanes at signalized intersections should remain open to traffic. Left turns
                      may be prohibited as noted on an approved TTC permit and/or TCP.

11.    EQUIPMENT: Contractor’s vehicles and equipment will be neat in appearance and easily identified.
       Contractor’s vehicles and equipment will be maintained in a safe and mechanically sound working
       condition. Identification on Contractor’s vehicles will consist of, at a minimum, company name and
       local telephone number. All trucks and other equipment will be compliant with all applicable federal,
       state, and local rules and regulations. All trucks and other equipment will be equipped with a back-
       up alarm.

       Trucks or equipment assigned for use under this contract will not be used for any other purposes
       while “on the clock” for the City nor will Contractor solicit work from private citizens while “on the
       clock” for the City.

       The City will not provide storage space for the Contractor’s vehicles, materials, supplies, and
       equipment.

12.    PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC AND DAMAGES TO EXISTING STRUCTURES: Contractor will
       exercise due care to minimize any damage to fences, trees, shrubs, landscaping, vehicles, and
       general property. Contractor will exercise caution for the protection of persons and property

Page 12 of 23                                                        Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       always. All fines, penalties and/or repair charges resulting from the Contractor’s actions will be the
       sole responsibility of the Contractor at no cost to the City. Contractor will immediately notify a City
       Representative of damages. Contractor will not permit placing or use of equipment in such a
       manner as to block vehicle traffic lanes or create safety hazards. Contractor will be responsible for
       providing and using all appropriate warning devices.

13.    INVOICE AND PAYMENT: A City Representative and the Contractor will agree upon work
       required and clarify any questions and concerns prior to beginning any work. When the work is
       completed, a City Representative will inspect the Contractor’s work.

       Contractor will submit an invoice to a City Representative for completed work. The City will require
       the Contractor to provide an invoice that reflects the quantities and dollar amount provided to the
       Contractor by a City Representative. The Contractor will include all applicable taxes in the invoice.
       A City Representative will compare invoice authorization to the Contractor’s invoice and approve
       payment for authorized work.




Page 13 of 23                                                      Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
                                         EXHIBIT B
                                          PRICING

                                        Labor and Equipment
                                                      Unit of       Estimated
 Item          Description          Unit Price                                       Total Price
                                                     Measure         Quantity
   1        Wall Preparation          $0.13         Square Feet      200,000         $26,000.00
          Wall Power Wash and
   2                                  $0.18         Square Feet       75,000         $13,500.00
               Preparation
   3           Wall Priming           $0.25         Square Feet       50,000         $12,500.00
   4          Wall Painting           $0.28         Square Feet      150,000         $42,000.00
   5      Textured Wall Painting      $0.30         Square Feet       50,000         $15,000.00
   6           Wall Coating           $0.50         Square Feet       25,000         $12,500.00
   7           Wall Sealer            $0.40         Square Feet       25,000         $10,000.00
   8      Stucco Repair & Install     $2.00         Square Feet       2,500           $5,000.00
   9       Masonry Wall Repair        $5.00         Square Feet       2,000          $10,000.00


                                       Miscellaneous Services
                                                         Unit of      Estimated
 Item               Description        Unit Price                                    Total Price
                                                        Measure        Quantity
  10                Extra Work           $45.00          Hourly           50          $2,250.00


                                                    Total Bid Price for all items:   $148,750.00




Page 14 of 23                                                Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
                                        EXHIBIT C
                            MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.     INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR. It is expressly understood that the relationship of Contractor to
       the City will be that of an independent contractor. Contractor and all persons employed by
       Contractor, either directly or indirectly, are Contractor’s employees, not City employees.
       Accordingly, Contractor and Contractor’s employees are not entitled to any benefits provided to
       City employees including, but not limited to, health benefits, enrollment in a retirement system, paid
       time off or other rights afforded City employees. Contractor employees will not be regarded as City
       employees or agents for any purpose, including the payment of unemployment or workers’
       compensation. If any Contractor employees or subcontractors assert a claim for wages or other
       employment benefits against the City, Contractor will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City
       from all such claims.
2.     SUBCONTRACTING. Contractor may not subcontract work under this Agreement without the
       express written permission of the City. If Contractor has received authorization to subcontract work,
       it is agreed that all subcontractors performing work under the Agreement must comply with its
       provisions. Further, all agreements between Contractor and its subcontractors must provide that
       the terms and conditions of this Agreement be incorporated therein.
3.     ASSIGNMENT. This Agreement may not be assigned, either in whole or in part, without first
       receiving the City’s written consent. Any attempted assignment, either in whole or in part, without
       such consent will be null and void and in such event the City will have the right, at its option, to
       terminate the Agreement. No granting of consent to any assignment will relieve Contractor from
       any of its obligations and liabilities under the Agreement.
4.     SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, BINDING EFFECT. This Agreement will be binding upon and
       inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns.
5.     NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement is intended for the exclusive benefit of the
       parties. Nothing set forth in this Agreement is intended to create, or will create, any benefits, rights,
       or responsibilities in any third parties.
6.     NON-EXCLUSIVITY. The City, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to request the materials or
       services set forth herein from other sources when deemed necessary and appropriate. No
       exclusive rights are encompassed through this Agreement.
7.     AMENDMENTS. There will be no oral changes to this Agreement. This Agreement can only be
       modified in a writing signed by both parties. No charge for extra work or material will be allowed
       unless approved in writing, in advance, by the City and Contractor.
8.     TIME OF THE ESSENCE. Time is of the essence to the performance of the parties’ obligations
       under this Agreement.
9.     COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
       a. General. Contractor must procure all permits/licenses and pay all charges and fees necessary
          and incidental to the lawful conduct of business. Contractor must stay fully informed of existing
          and future federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations that in any manner affect
          the fulfillment of this Agreement and must comply with the same at its own expense. Contractor
          bears full responsibility for training, safety, and providing necessary equipment for all
          Contractor personnel to achieve compliance throughout the term of the Agreement. Upon
          request, Contractor will demonstrate to the City's satisfaction any programs, procedures, and
          other activities used to ensure compliance.

       b. Drug-Free Workplace. Contractor is hereby advised that the City has adopted a policy
          establishing a drug-free workplace for itself and those doing business with the City to ensure
          the safety and health of all persons working on City contracts and projects. Contractor will
          require a drug-free workplace for all Contractor personnel working under this Agreement.
          Specifically, all Contractor personnel who are working under this Agreement must be notified


Page 15 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
            in writing by Contractor that they are prohibited from the manufacture, distribution,
            dispensation, possession, or unlawful use of a controlled substance in the workplace.
            Contractor agrees to prohibit the use of intoxicating substances by all Contractor personnel
            and will ensure that Contractor personnel do not use or possess illegal drugs while in the course
            of performing their duties.

       c.   Federal and State Immigration Laws. Contractor agrees to comply with the Immigration
            Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) in performance under this Agreement and to permit the
            City and its agents to inspect applicable personnel records to verify such compliance as
            permitted by law. Contractor will ensure and keep appropriate records to demonstrate that all
            Contractor personnel have a legal right to live and work in the United States.
            i.    As applicable to Contractor, under the provisions of A.R.S. § 41-4401, Contractor hereby
                  warrants to the City that Contractor and each of its subcontractors will comply with, and
                  are contractually obligated to comply with, all federal immigration laws and regulations that
                  relate to their employees and A.R.S. § 23-214(A) (hereinafter collectively the “Contractor
                  Immigration Warranty”).
            ii.   A breach of the Contractor Immigration Warranty will constitute a material breach of this
                  Agreement and will subject Contractor to penalties up to and including termination of this
                  Agreement at the sole discretion of the City.
            iii. To ensure Contractor and its subcontractors are complying with the Contractor Immigration
                 Warranty, the City retains the legal right to conduct random verification of the employment
                 records of any Contractor or subcontractor employee who works on this Agreement,
                 including the inspection of the papers of such employees. Contractor agrees to assist the
                 City in regard to any random verification performed.
            iv. Neither Contractor nor any subcontractor will be deemed to have materially breached the
                Contractor Immigration Warranty if Contractor or subcontractor establishes that it has
                complied with the employment verification provisions prescribed by Sections 274a and
                274b of the Federal Immigration and Nationality Act and the E-Verify requirements
                prescribed by A.R.S. § 23-214(A).
       d. Nondiscrimination. Contractor understands and acknowledges that it is the policy of the City
          of Mesa to promote non-discrimination. As such, Contractor represents and warrants that it
          does not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment or person to whom it
          provides services because of race, color, national origin, age, disability, religion, sex, sexual
          orientation, gender identity and expression, veterans’ status, marital status, or genetic
          information, and represents and warrants that it complies with all applicable federal, state, and
          local laws and executive orders regarding employment. In performance under this Agreement,
          Contractor and Contractor’s personnel will comply with applicable provisions of the following
          laws (as amended): Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Federal
          Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.), and any
          other applicable non-discrimination laws and rules.

       e. State Sponsors of Terrorism Prohibition. Per A.R.S. § 35-392, Contractor must not be in
          violation of section 6(j) of the Federal Export Administration Act and subsequently prohibited
          by the State of Arizona from selling goods or services to the City.

       f.   Israel Boycott Divestments. In accordance with the requirements of A.R.S. § 35-393.01, if
            the Agreement requires Contractor to acquire or dispose of services, supplies, information
            technology or construction with a value of $100,000 or more, then, by entering into this
            Agreement, Contractor certifies that it is not currently engaged in, and agrees for the duration
            of the Agreement to not engage in, a boycott of goods and services from Israel.




Page 16 of 23                                                        Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
10.    SALES/USE TAX, OTHER TAXES.
       a. Contractor is responsible for the payment of all taxes including federal, state, and local taxes
          related to or arising out of Contractor’s services under this Agreement including, by way of
          illustration but not limitation, federal and state income tax, Social Security tax, unemployment
          insurance taxes, and any other taxes or business license fees, as required. If any taxing
          authority should deem Contractor or Contractor employees an employee of the City, or should
          otherwise claim the City is liable for the payment of taxes that are Contractor’s responsibility
          under this Agreement, then Contractor will indemnify the City for any tax liability, interest, and
          penalties imposed upon the City.

       b. The City is exempt from paying certain federal excise taxes and will furnish an exemption
          certificate upon request. The City is not exempt from state and local sales/use taxes.
11.    AMOUNTS DUE THE CITY. Contractor must be current and remain current in all obligations,
       whether or not related to the Agreement, due to the City during the performance of services under
       the Agreement. Payments to Contractor may be offset by any delinquent amounts due the City or
       fees and charges owed to the City.
12.    PUBLIC RECORDS. Contractor acknowledges that the City is a public body, subject to Arizona’s
       public records laws (A.R.S. § 39-121 et seq.) and any documents related to this Agreement may
       be subject to disclosure pursuant to state law in response to a public records request or to
       subpoena or other judicial process.
       a. If Contractor believes documents related to the Agreement contain trade secrets or other
          proprietary data, Contractor must have notified the City pursuant to Mesa Procurement Rules
          Section 2.1 or notified the City with a notification statement specifically identifying the trade
          secrets or other proprietary data that Contractor believes should remain confidential.

       b. In the event the City determines it is legally required to disclose pursuant to law any documents
          or information Contractor deems confidential trade secrets or proprietary data, the City, to the
          extent possible, will provide Contractor with prompt written notice by certified mail, fax, email
          or other method that tracks delivery status of the requirement to disclose the information so
          Contractor may seek a protective order from a court having jurisdiction over the matter or obtain
          other appropriate remedies. The notice will include a time period for Contractor to seek court
          ordered protection or other legal remedies as deemed appropriate by Contractor. If Contractor
          does not obtain such court ordered protection by the expiration of said time period, the City
          may release the information without further notice to Contractor.

13.    AUDITS AND RECORDS. Contractor must preserve the records related to this Agreement for six
       (6) years after completion of the Agreement. The City or its authorized agent reserves the right to
       inspect any records related to the performance of work specified herein. In addition, the City may
       inspect all payroll, billing or other relevant records kept by Contractor in relation to the Agreement.
       Contractor will permit such inspections and audits during normal business hours and upon
       reasonable notice by the City. The audit of records may occur at Contractor’s place of business or
       at City offices, as determined by the City.
14.    BACKGROUND CHECK. In accordance with the City’s current background check policies, the
       City may conduct criminal, driver history, and all other requested background checks of Contractor
       personnel who would perform services under the Agreement who will have access to the City’s
       information, data, or facilities. Any officer, employee, or agent that fails the background check must
       be replaced immediately for any reasonable cause not prohibited by law.
15.    SECURITY CLEARANCE AND REMOVAL OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL.                                 The City will
       have final authority, based on security reasons: (i) to determine when security clearance of
       Contractor personnel is required; (ii) to determine the nature of the security clearance, up to and
       including fingerprinting Contractor personnel; and (iii) to determine whether any individual or entity
       may provide services under this Agreement. If the City objects to any Contractor personnel for any


Page 17 of 23                                                      Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       reasonable cause not prohibited by law, then Contractor will, upon notice from the City, remove
       any such individual from performance of services under this Agreement.
16.    DEFAULT.
       a. A party will be in default of the Agreement if that party:
            i.    Is or becomes insolvent or is a party to any voluntary bankruptcy or receivership
                  proceeding, makes an assignment for a creditor, or there is any similar action that affects
                  Contractor’s capability to perform under the Agreement;
            ii.   Is the subject of a petition for involuntary bankruptcy not removed within sixty (60) calendar
                  days;
            iii. Conducts business in an unethical manner as set forth in the City Procurement Rules
                 Article 7 or in an illegal manner; or
            iv. Fails to carry out any term, promise, or condition of the Agreement.
       b. Contractor will be in default of this Agreement if Contractor is debarred from participating in
          City procurements and solicitations in accordance with Article 6 of the City’s Procurement
          Rules.
       c.   Notice and Opportunity to Cure. In the event a party is in default then the other party will
            provide written notice to the defaulting party of the default. The defaulting party will have thirty
            (30) days from receipt of the notice to cure the default, unless the default is of a nature that it
            is reasonably anticipated to affect the health, safety or welfare of the public and, in such an
            event, the non-defaulting party may require a minimum seven (7) days to cure the default from
            the date of receipt of the notice; the cure period may be extended by mutual agreement of the
            parties, but no cure period may exceed ninety (90) days. A default notice will be deemed to be
            sufficient if it is reasonably calculated to provide notice of the nature and extent of such default.
            Failure of the non-defaulting party to provide notice of the default does not waive any rights
            under the Agreement. Failure of the defaulting party to cure the default will entitle the non-
            defaulting party to the election of remedies specific to the party as set forth in section 17 below.
       d. Anticipatory Repudiation. Whenever the City in good faith has reason to question
          Contractor’s intent or ability to perform, the City may demand that Contractor give a written
          assurance of its intent and ability to perform. In the event demand is made and no written
          assurance is given within ten (10) calendar days, the City may treat this failure as an
          anticipatory repudiation of the Agreement entitling the City to terminate the Agreement in
          accordance with section 17(a) below.

17.    REMEDIES. The remedies set forth in this Agreement are not exclusive. Election of one remedy
       will not preclude the use of other remedies. In the event of default:
       a. The non-defaulting party may terminate the Agreement, and the termination will be effective
          immediately or at such other date as specified by the terminating party.
       b. The City may purchase the services or materials required under the Agreement from the open
          market, complete required work itself, or have it completed at the expense of Contractor. If the
          cost of obtaining substitute services exceeds the contract price in the Agreement, the City may
          recover the excess cost by: (i) requiring immediate reimbursement by the Contractor to the
          City; (ii) deduction from an unpaid balance due to Contractor; (iii) collection against the proposal
          and performance security, if any; (iv) collection against liquidated damages (if applicable); or
          (v) a combination of the aforementioned remedies or other remedies as permitted by law.
          Costs in this Subsection (b) include any and all, fees, and expenses incurred in obtaining
          substitute services and expended in obtaining reimbursement including, but not limited to,
          administrative expenses, attorneys’ fees, and costs.




Page 18 of 23                                                        Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       c.   The non-defaulting party will have all other rights granted under this Agreement and all rights
            at law or in equity that may be available to it.
       d. Neither party will be liable for incidental, special, or consequential damages.
18.    CONTINUATION DURING DISPUTES. Contractor agrees that during any dispute between the
       parties, Contractor will continue to perform its obligations until the dispute is settled, instructed to
       cease performance by the City, enjoined or prohibited by judicial action, or otherwise required or
       obligated to cease performance by other provisions in this Agreement.
19.    TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE. The City reserves the right to terminate this Agreement, in
       part or in whole, for its sole convenience upon thirty (30) calendar days’ written notice. Contractor
       acknowledges that, as with any termination permitted under this Agreement, in the event of a
       termination for convenience, Contractor is only entitled to payment in accordance with section 22
       (Payment to Contractor Upon Termination); Contractor will not be entitled to any anticipated lost
       profits had the Agreement been performed to completion.
20.    TERMINATION FOR CONFLICT OF INTEREST (A.R.S. § 38-511). Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-511,
       the City may cancel this Agreement within three (3) years after its execution, without penalty or
       further obligation, if any person significantly involved in initiating, securing, drafting, or creating the
       Agreement for the City becomes an employee or agent of Contractor.
21.    TERMINATION FOR NON-APPROPRIATION AND MODIFICATION FOR BUDGETARY
       CONSTRAINT. The City is a governmental agency which relies upon the appropriation of funds
       by its governing body to satisfy its obligations. If the City reasonably determines it does not have
       funds to meet its obligations under this Agreement, the City will have the right to terminate the
       Agreement without penalty on the last day of the fiscal period for which funds were legally available.
       In the event of such termination, the City agrees to provide written notice of its intent to terminate
       thirty (30) calendar days prior to the stated termination date.
22.    PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR UPON TERMINATION. Upon termination of this Agreement for
       any reason, Contractor will be entitled only to payments authorized under the Agreement for those
       services performed or materials provided in accordance with the Agreement up to the date of
       termination, and any authorized expenses already incurred up to such date of termination. The
       City will make final payment within thirty (30) calendar days after the City has both completed its
       appraisal of the materials and services provided and received Contractor’s properly prepared final
       invoice.
23.    NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS. There will be no waiver of any provision of this Agreement unless
       approved in writing and signed by the waiving party. Failure or delay to exercise any rights or
       remedies provided herein or by law or in equity, or the acceptance of, or payment for, any services
       hereunder, will not release the other party of any of the warranties or other obligations of the
       Agreement and will not be deemed a waiver of any such rights or remedies.
24.    INDEMNIFICATION; LIABILITY.
       a. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor agrees to defend, indemnify and hold
          harmless the City, its elected officials, agents, representatives and employees (collectively,
          including the City, “City Personnel”) from and against any and all liabilities, demands, claims,
          suits, penalties, obligations, losses, damages, causes of action, fines or judgments of any kind,
          including costs, attorneys’, witnesses’ and expert witnesses’ fees, and expenses incident
          thereto (all of the foregoing, collectively “Claims”) imposed upon or asserted against City
          Personnel by a third party relating to, arising out of or resulting from, in whole or in part: (i)
          services or materials provided under this Agreement by Contractor or its officers’, agents’, or
          employees’ (collectively, including Contractor, “Contractor Personnel”): (ii) negligent acts,
          errors, mistakes or omissions of Contractor Personnel; or (iii) failure of Contractor Personnel
          to comply with or fulfill the obligations established by this Agreement. Contractor’s
          indemnification, duty to defend and hold harmless City Personnel in this Subsection (a) will
          apply to all Claims against City Personnel except Claims arising solely from the negligence or
          intentional acts of City Personnel.


Page 19 of 23                                                         Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       b. The City assumes no liability for the actions of Contractor Personnel and will not indemnify or
          hold Contractor Personnel or any third party harmless for Claims relating to, arising out of or
          resulting from, in whole or in part, this Agreement or use of Contractor Personnel-provided
          services or materials.
25.    WARRANTY. Contractor warrants that the services and materials will conform to the requirements
       of the Agreement. Additionally, Contractor warrants that all services will be performed in a good,
       workman-like and professional manner. The City’s acceptance of services or materials provided
       by Contractor will not relieve Contractor from its obligations under this warranty. If the City
       reasonably determines any materials or services are of a substandard or unsatisfactory manner,
       Contractor, at no additional charge to the City, will provide materials or redo such services until in
       accordance with this Agreement and to the City’s reasonable satisfaction.
       Unless otherwise agreed, Contractor warrants that materials will be new, unused, of most current
       manufacture and not discontinued, will be free of defects in materials and workmanship, will be
       provided in accordance with manufacturer's standard warranty for at least one (1) year unless
       otherwise specified, and will perform in accordance with manufacturer's published specifications.
26.    THE CITY’S RIGHT TO RECOVER AGAINST THIRD PARTIES. Contractor will do nothing to
       prejudice the City’s right to recover against third parties for any loss, destruction, or damage to City
       property and will, at the City’s request and expense, furnish to the City reasonable assistance and
       cooperation in obtaining recovery, including assistance in the prosecution or defense of suit and
       the execution of instruments of assignment in favor of the City.
27.    NO GUARANTEE OF WORK. Contractor acknowledges and agrees: (i) it is not entitled to deliver
       any specific amount of materials or services, or any materials or services at all, under this
       Agreement; and (ii) the materials or services will be requested by the City on an as needed basis,
       at the sole discretion of the City. Any document referencing quantities or performance frequencies
       represent the City's best estimate of current requirements, but will not bind the City to purchase,
       accept, or pay for materials or services which exceed its actual needs.
28.    OWNERSHIP. All deliverables, services, and information provided by Contractor or the City
       pursuant to this Agreement (whether electronically or manually generated) including without
       limitation, reports, test plans, and survey results, graphics, and technical tables, originally prepared
       in the performance of this Agreement, are the property of the City and will not be used or released
       by Contractor or any other person except with prior written permission by the City.
29.    USE OF NAME. Contractor will not use the name of the City of Mesa in any advertising or publicity
       without obtaining the prior written consent of the City.
30.    PROHIBITED ACTS. Contractor acknowledges the applicability of A.R.S. § 38-504 which prohibits
       a person who, within the preceding twelve (12) months, is or was a public officer or employee of
       the City from representing another person (including Contractor) before the City on any matter for
       which the officer or employee was directly concerned and personally participated in during their
       service or employment by a substantial and material exercise of administrative discretion. Further,
       while employed by the City and for two (2) years thereafter, public officers or employees are
       prohibited from disclosing or using, without appropriate authorization, any confidential information
       acquired by such person in the course of his or her official duties at the City.
31.    FOB DESTINATION FREIGHT PREPAID AND ALLOWED. All deliveries will be FOB destination
       freight prepaid and allowed unless otherwise agreed.
32.    RISK OF LOSS. Contractor agrees to bear all risk of loss, injury, or destruction of Contractor’s
       goods or equipment incidental to Contractor providing the services and materials under this
       Agreement and such loss, injury, or destruction will not release Contractor from any obligation
       hereunder.
33.    SAFEGUARDING CITY PROPERTY. Contractor will be responsible for any damage or loss to
       City real or personal property when such property is the responsibility of or in the custody of
       Contractor or its personnel.


Page 20 of 23                                                       Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
34.    WARRANTY OF RIGHTS. Contractor warrants it has title to, or the right to allow the City to use,
       the materials and services being provided and that the City may use same without suit, trouble or
       hindrance from Contractor or third parties.
35.    PROPRIETARY RIGHTS INDEMNIFICATION. Without limiting the warranty in section 34,
       Contractor will without limitation and at its expense defend the City against all claims asserted by
       any person that anything provided by Contractor infringes a patent, copyright, trade secret or other
       intellectual property right and must, without limitation, pay the costs, damages and attorneys' fees
       awarded against the City in any such action, or pay any settlement of such action or claim. Each
       party agrees to notify the other promptly of any matters to which this provision may apply and to
       cooperate with each other in connection with such defense or settlement. If a preliminary or final
       judgment is obtained against the City’s use or operation of the items provided by Contractor
       hereunder or any part thereof by reason of any alleged infringement, Contractor will, at its expense
       and without limitation, either: (a) modify the item so that it becomes non-infringing; (b) procure for
       the City the right to continue to use the item; (c) substitute for the infringing item other item(s) having
       at least equivalent capability; or (d) refund to the City an amount equal to the price paid, less
       reasonable usage, from the time of installation acceptance through cessation of use, which amount
       will be calculated on a useful life not less than five (5) years, plus any additional costs the City may
       incur to acquire substitute supplies or services.
36.    CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION. The contract will be administered by the applicable Purchasing
       Officer and/or an authorized representative from the using department (collectively “Contractor
       Administrators”); all questions regarding the Agreement will be referred to the Contract
       Administrators. If authorized by the Contract Administrators, supplements or amendments may be
       written to the Agreement for the addition or deletion of services. Payment will be negotiated and
       determined by the Contract Administrators.
37.    FORCE MAJEURE. Failure by either party to perform its duties and obligations will be excused by
       unforeseeable circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including acts of nature, acts of the
       public enemy, riots, fire, explosion, legislation, and governmental regulation. The party whose
       performance is so affected will, within five (5) calendar days of the unforeseeable circumstance,
       notify the other party of all pertinent facts and identify the force majeure event. The party whose
       performance is so affected must also take all reasonable steps, promptly and diligently, to prevent
       such causes if it is feasible to do so or to minimize or eliminate the effect thereof. The delivery or
       performance date will be extended for a period equal to the time lost by reason of delay, plus such
       additional time as may be reasonably necessary to overcome the effect of the delay, provided
       however, under no circumstances will delays caused by a force majeure extend beyond one
       hundred-twenty (120) calendar days from the scheduled delivery or completion date of a task
       unless agreed upon by the parties.
38.    COOPERATIVE USE OF CONTRACT. The City has entered into various cooperative purchasing
       agreements with other Arizona government agencies, including the Strategic Alliance for Volume
       Expenditures (SAVE) cooperative. Under the SAVE Cooperative Purchasing Agreement, any
       contract may be extended for use by other municipalities, school districts and government agencies
       in the State of Arizona with the approval of Contractor. Any such usage by other entities must be
       in accordance with the statutes, codes, ordinances, charter and/or procurement rules and
       regulations of the respective government agency.

       The City currently holds or may enter into Intergovernmental Governmental Agreements (IGA) with
       numerous governmental entities. These agreements allow the entities, with the approval of
       Contractor, to purchase their requirements under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

       A contractor, subcontractor or vendor or any employee of a contractor, subcontractor or vendor
       who is contracted to provide services on a regular basis at an individual school shall obtain a valid
       fingerprint clearance card pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1. A school district governing
       board shall adopt policies to exempt a person from the requirements of this subsection if the
       person's normal job duties are not likely to result in independent access to or unsupervised contact


Page 21 of 23                                                         Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
       with pupils. A school district, its governing board members, its school council members and its
       employees are exempt from civil liability for the consequences of adoption and implementation of
       policies and procedures pursuant to this subsection unless the school district, its governing board
       members, its school council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional
       misconduct.

       Additionally, Contractor will comply with the governing body’s fingerprinting policy of each individual
       school district and public entity. Contractor, subcontractors, vendors and their employees will not
       provide services on school district properties until authorized by the school district.

       Orders placed by other agencies and payment thereof will be the sole responsibility of that agency.
       The City is not responsible for any disputes arising out of transactions made by others.

39.    FUEL CHARGES AND PRICE INCREASES. No fuel surcharges will be accepted. No price
       increases will be accepted without proper request by Contractor and response by the City’s
       Purchasing Division.
40.    NOTICES. All notices to be given pursuant to this Agreement must be delivered to the parties at
       their respective addresses. Notices may be sent via personally delivery, certified or registered mail
       with postage prepaid, overnight courier, or facsimile. If provided by personal delivery, receipt will
       be deemed effective upon delivery. If sent via certified or registered mail, receipt will be deemed
       effective three (3) calendar days after being deposited in the United States mail. If sent via
       overnight courier, or facsimile, receipt will be deemed effective two (2) calendar days after the
       sending thereof.
41.    GOVERNING LAW, FORUM. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Arizona.
       The exclusive forum selected for any proceeding or suit, in law or equity, arising from or incident to
       this Agreement will be Maricopa County, Arizona.
42.    INTEGRATION CLAUSE. This Agreement, including all attachments and exhibits hereto,
       supersede all prior oral or written agreements, if any, between the parties and constitutes the entire
       agreement between the parties with respect to the work to be performed.
43.    PROVISIONS REQUIRED BY LAW. Any provision required by law to be in this Agreement is a
       part of this Agreement as if fully stated herein.
44.    SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is declared void or unenforceable, such
       provision will be severed from this Agreement, which will otherwise remain in full force and effect.
       The parties will negotiate diligently in good faith for such amendment(s) of this Agreement as may
       be necessary to achieve the original intent of this Agreement, notwithstanding such invalidity or
       unenforceability.
45.    SURVIVING PROVISIONS. Notwithstanding any completion, termination, or other expiration of
       this Agreement, all provisions which, by the terms of reasonable interpretation thereof, set forth
       rights and obligations that extend beyond completion, termination, or other expiration of this
       Agreement, will survive and remain in full force and effect. Except as specifically provided in this
       Agreement, completion, termination, or other expiration of this Agreement will not release any party
       from any liability or obligation arising prior to the date of termination.
46.    A.R.S. SECTIONS 1-501 and 1-502. Pursuant to A.R.S §§ 1-501 and 1-502, any person who
       applies to the City for a local public benefit (the definition of which includes a grant, contract or
       loan) must demonstrate his or her lawful presence in the United States. As this Agreement is
       deemed a local public benefit, if Contractor is an individual (natural) person or sole proprietorship,
       Contractor agrees to sign and submit the necessary documentation to prove compliance with the
       statutes if applicable.




Page 22 of 23                                                      Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206
47.    AUTHORITY. Each party hereby warrants and represents that it has full power and authority to
       enter into and perform this Agreement, and that the person signing on behalf of each is properly
       authorized and empowered to enter into the Agreement. Each party further acknowledges that it
       has read this Agreement, understands it, and agrees to be bound by it.
48.    UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS. By entering into this Agreement, the Contractor
       agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of Title 2, Subtitle A, Chapter II, PART 200—
       UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT
       REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS contained in Title 2 C.F.R. § 200 et seq.
49.    PCI DSS COMPLIANCE. In the event any Contractor engages in payment card transactions as
       a part of the services provided to the City, Contractor shall comply with the Payment Card Industry
       Data Security Standards (“PCI DSS”) and any amendments or restatements of the PCI DSS during
       the Term of this Agreement. Contractor accepts responsibility for the security of the City’s and/or
       any customer’s credit card data in its possession, even if all or a portion of the services to City are
       subcontracted to third parties.




Page 23 of 23                                                      Ghaster Paintings and Coatings
Contract #2020206

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
