# f1040es_7

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:34:45  
**Original File:** f1040es_7.pdf

---

## Content

2025
Form 1040-ES
Estimated Tax for Individuals

Purpose of This Package                                           Exception. You don’t have to pay estimated tax for 2025
Use Form 1040-ES to figure and pay your estimated tax             if you were a U.S. citizen or resident alien for all of 2024
for 2025.                                                         and you had no tax liability for the full 12-month 2024 tax
                                                                  year. You had no tax liability for 2024 if your total tax was
   Estimated tax is the method used to pay tax on income          zero or you didn’t have to file an income tax return.
that isn’t subject to withholding (for example, earnings
from self-employment, including gig economy work,                 Special Rules
interest, dividends, rents, alimony, etc.). In addition, if you   There are special rules for those who have income from
don’t elect voluntary withholding, you should make                farming and fishing, for certain household employers, and
estimated tax payments on other taxable income, such as           certain higher income taxpayers.
unemployment compensation and the taxable part of your
social security benefits.                                         Farming and fishing. If at least two-thirds of your gross
                                                                  income for 2024 or 2025 is from farming or fishing,
Preprinted vouchers. If you made estimated tax                    substitute 662/3% for 90% in (2a) under General Rule.
payments for 2024, this package may contain vouchers
that are preprinted with your name, address, and SSN.             Household employers. When estimating the tax on your
                                                                  2025 tax return, include your household employment
        If your name or SSN isn't correct, make the               taxes if either of the following applies.
 TIP necessary changes on the vouchers. Cross out                 • You will have federal income tax withheld from wages,
       the name and SSN of a deceased or divorced                 pensions, annuities, gambling winnings, or other income.
spouse.                                                           • You would be required to make estimated tax payments
                                                                  to avoid a penalty even if you didn’t include household
Change of address. If your address has changed, file              employment taxes when figuring your estimated tax.
Form 8822, to update your record.
                                                                  Higher income taxpayers. If your adjusted gross
Future developments. For the latest information about             income (AGI) for 2024 was more than $150,000 ($75,000
developments related to Form 1040-ES and its                      if your filing status for 2025 is married filing separately),
instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were         substitute 110% for 100% in (2b) under General Rule,
published, go to IRS.gov/Form1040ES.                              earlier. If at least two-thirds of your gross income for 2024
Who Must Make Estimated Tax                                       or 2025 is from farming or fishing, this rule doesn't apply.

Payments                                                          Increase Your Withholding
The estimated tax rules apply to:                                 If you also receive salaries and wages, you may be able to
• U.S. citizens and resident aliens;                              avoid having to make estimated tax payments on your
• Residents of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,              other income by asking your employer to take more tax out
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana                    of your earnings. To do this, file a new Form W-4,
Islands, and American Samoa; and                                  Employee's Withholding Certificate, with your employer.
• Nonresident aliens (use Form 1040-ES (NR)).                         Generally, if you receive a pension or annuity you can
                                                                  use Form W-4P, Withholding Certificate for Periodic
General Rule                                                      Pension or Annuity Payments, to start or change your
In most cases, you must pay estimated tax for 2025 if both        withholding from these payments.
of the following apply.                                               You can also choose to have federal income tax
   1. You expect to owe at least $1,000 in tax for 2025,          withheld from certain government payments (see Form
after subtracting your withholding and refundable credits.        W-4V, Voluntary Withholding Request) or from
   2. You expect your withholding and refundable credits          nonperiodic payments and eligible rollover distributions
to be less than the smaller of:                                   (see Form W-4R, Withholding Certificate for Nonperiodic
   a. 90% of the tax to be shown on your 2025 tax return,         Payments and Eligible Rollover Distributions).
or                                                                        You can use the Tax Withholding Estimator at
   b. 100% of the tax shown on your 2024 tax return. Your          TIP IRS.gov/W4App to determine whether you need to
2024 tax return must cover all 12 months.                                 have your withholding increased or decreased.

Note. These percentages may be different if you have              Additional Information You May Need
income from farming or fishing or are a higher income             You can find most of the information you will need in Pub.
taxpayer. See Special Rules, later.                               505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax, and in the
                                                                  instructions for the 2024 Form 1040 and 1040-SR.
                                   Instructions for Form 1040es (2025) Catalog Number 11340T
January 21, 2025                Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
   For details on how to get forms and publications, see                        claim either the credit or exclusion, your modified adjusted
the 2024 Instructions for Form 1040.                                            gross income must be less than $299,190.
What's New                                                                      Reminders
In figuring your 2025 estimated tax, be sure to consider                        Expired individual taxpayer identification number
the following.                                                                  (ITIN) and renewal. If you have an ITIN that you haven't
Standard deduction amount increased. For 2025, the                              included on a tax return in the last 3 consecutive years, it
standard deduction amount has been increased for all                            may be expired and you may need to renew it. If your ITIN
filers. If you don't itemize your deductions, you can take                      has expired and you don't have an SSN, you can make
the 2025 standard deduction listed in the following chart                       estimated tax payments before you renew your ITIN. To
for your filing status.                                                         renew your ITIN, and for more information, see the
                                                                                Instructions for Form W-7.
                                             THEN your standard                 Advance payments of the premium tax credit. If you
 IF your 2025 filing status is...
                                             deduction is...                    buy health care insurance through the Health Insurance
 Married filing jointly or                                                      Marketplace, you may be eligible for advance payments of
                                                          $30,000               the premium tax credit to help pay for your insurance
 Qualifying surviving spouse
 Head of household                                        $22,500
                                                                                coverage. Receiving too little or too much in advance will
                                                                                affect your refund or balance due. Promptly report
 Single or Married filing separately                      $15,000               changes in your income or family size to your
                                                                                Marketplace. See Form 8962 and its instructions for more
                                                                                information.
   However, if you can be claimed as a dependent on
another person's 2025 return, your standard deduction is                        Form 1040-SS filers. The Estimated Tax Worksheet for
the greater of:                                                                 filers of Form 1040-SS is included on Form 1040-ES.
• $1,350, or                                                                    Access Your Online Account
• Your earned income plus $450 (up to the standard
deduction amount).                                                              Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information
                                                                                about your federal tax account.
   Your standard deduction is increased by the following
amount if, at the end of 2025, you are:                                         • View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• An unmarried individual (single or head of household)                         • See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
                                                                                plan.
and are:
                                                                                • Make a payment, view 5 years of payment history and
65 or older or blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $2,000   any pending or scheduled payments.
65 or older and blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $4,000   • Access your tax records, including key data from your
                                                                                most recent tax return and transcripts.
                                                                                • View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• A married individual (filing jointly or separately) or a                      • Approve or reject authorization requests from tax
                                                                                professionals.
qualifying surviving spouse and are:
                                                                                • View your address on file or manage your
65 or older or blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $1,600    communication preferences.
65 or older and blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Both spouses 65 or older . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                     $3,200
                                                                     $3,200*
                                                                                How To Figure Your Estimated Tax
Both spouses 65 or older and blind . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $6,400*    You will need:
*Only if married filing jointly. If married filing separately, these amounts    • The 2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet,
do not apply.                                                                   • The Instructions for the 2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet,
                                                                                • The 2025 Tax Rate Schedules, and
                                                                                • Your 2024 tax return and instructions to use as a guide
        Your standard deduction is zero if (a) your spouse                      to figuring your income, deductions, and credits (but be
        itemizes on a separate return, or (b) you were a                        sure to consider the items listed under What's New,
    !
CAUTION dual-status alien and you do not elect to be taxed                      earlier).
as a resident alien for 2025.                                                   Matching estimated tax payments to income. If you
                                                                                receive your income unevenly throughout the year (for
Social security tax. For 2025, the maximum amount of                            example, because you operate your business on a
earned income (wages and net earnings from                                      seasonal basis or you have a large capital gain late in the
self-employment) subject to the social security tax is                          year), you may be able to lower or eliminate the amount of
$176,100.                                                                       your required estimated tax payment for one or more
Additional child tax credit amount. For 2025, the                               periods by using the annualized income installment
maximum additional child tax credit amount is $1,700 for                        method. See chapter 2 of Pub. 505 for details.
each qualifying child.                                                          Changing your estimated tax. To amend or correct your
Adoption credit or exclusion. For 2025, the maximum                             estimated tax, see How To Amend Estimated Tax
adoption credit or exclusion for employer-provided                              Payments, later.
adoption benefits has increased to $17,280. In order to

2                                                                                                                      Form 1040-ES (2025)
        You can’t make joint estimated tax payments if you              the 1st month of the following fiscal year. If any payment
  !     or your spouse is a nonresident alien, you are                  date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, use the
CAUTION separated under a decree of divorce or separate                 next business day. See Pub. 509, Tax Calendars, for a list
maintenance, or you and your spouse have different tax                  of all legal holidays.
years.
                                                                        Name Change
   Additionally, individuals who are in registered domestic             If you changed your name because of marriage, divorce,
partnerships, civil unions, or other similar formal                     etc., and you made estimated tax payments using your
relationships that aren’t marriages under state law cannot              former name, attach a statement to the front of your 2025
make joint estimated tax payments. These individuals can                paper tax return. On the statement, show all of the
take credit only for the estimated tax payments that they               estimated tax payments you (and your spouse, if filing
made.                                                                   jointly) made for 2025 and the name(s) and SSN(s) under
                                                                        which you made the payments.
Payment Due Dates
You can pay all of your estimated tax by April 15, 2025, or                Be sure to report the change to your local Social
in four equal amounts by the dates shown below.                         Security Administration office before filing your 2025 tax
                                                                        return. This prevents delays in processing your return and
      1st payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    April 15, 2025   issuing refunds. It also safeguards your future social
      2nd payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     June 16, 2025     security benefits. For more details, call the Social Security
      3rd payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   Sept. 15, 2025    Administration at 800-772-1213 (TTY/TDD
      4th payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   Jan. 15, 2026*    800-325-0778).
      * You don’t have to make the payment due January 15,
      2026, if you file your 2025 tax return by February 2, 2026,       How To Amend Estimated Tax
      and pay the entire balance due with your return.                  Payments
                                                                        To change or amend your estimated tax payments,
                                                                        refigure your total estimated tax payments due (see the
   If you mail your payment and it is postmarked by the
                                                                        2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet). Then, to figure the
due date, the date of the U.S. postmark is considered the
                                                                        payment due for each remaining payment period, see
date of payment. If your payments are late or you didn’t
                                                                        Amended estimated tax in chapter 2 of Pub. 505. If an
pay enough, you may be charged a penalty for
                                                                        estimated tax payment for a previous period is less than
underpaying your tax. See When a Penalty Is Applied,
                                                                        one-fourth of your amended estimated tax, you may owe a
later.
                                                                        penalty when you file your return.
          You can make more than four estimated tax
 TIP payments. To do so, make a copy of one of your                     When a Penalty Is Applied
         unused estimated tax payment vouchers, fill it in,             In some cases, you may owe a penalty when you file your
and mail it with your payment. If you make more than four               return. The penalty is imposed on each underpayment for
payments, to avoid a penalty, make sure the total of the                the number of days it remains unpaid. A penalty may be
amounts you pay during a payment period is at least as                  applied if you didn’t pay enough estimated tax for the year
much as the amount required to be paid by the due date                  or you didn’t make the payments on time or in the required
for that period. For other payment methods, see How To                  amount.
Pay Estimated Tax, later.
                                                                          The penalty may be waived under certain conditions.
No income subject to estimated tax during first pay-                    See the Instructions for Form 2210 for details.
ment period. If, after March 31, 2025, you have a large
change in income, deductions, additional taxes, or credits              How To Pay Estimated Tax
that requires you to start making estimated tax payments,
you should figure the amount of your estimated tax                      Pay Online
payments by using the annualized income installment                     Paying online is convenient and secure and helps make
method, explained in chapter 2 of Pub. 505. If you use the              sure we get your payments on time. To pay your taxes
annualized income installment method, file Form 2210,                   online or for more information, go to IRS.gov/Payments.
including Schedule AI, with your 2025 tax return even if no
                                                                            Once you are issued a social security number (SSN),
penalty is owed.
                                                                        use it when paying your estimated taxes online. Use your
Farming and fishing. If at least two-thirds of your gross               SSN even if your SSN does not authorize employment or
income for 2024 or 2025 is from farming or fishing, you                 if you have been issued an SSN that authorizes
can do one of the following.                                            employment and you lose your employment authorization.
• Pay all of your estimated tax by January 15, 2026.                    An ITIN will not be issued to you once you have been
• File your 2025 Form 1040 or 1040-SR by March 2,                       issued an SSN. If you received your SSN after previously
2026, and pay the total tax due. In this case, 2025                     using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use your SSN
estimated tax payments aren’t required to avoid a penalty.              instead.
Fiscal year taxpayers. You are on a fiscal year if your                   Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to the IRS in
12-month tax period ends on any day except December                     U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not accepted.
31. Due dates for fiscal year taxpayers are the 15th day of
the 4th, 6th, and 9th months of your current fiscal year and              You can pay using any of the following methods.

Form 1040-ES (2025)                                                                                                                 3
• Your Online Account. You can make tax payments                 Pay by Cash
through your online account, including balance payments,
estimated tax payments, or other types. You can also see         You can pay your taxes in cash. To find out about the
your payment history and other tax records there. Go to          different cash payment methods, go to IRS.gov/PayCash.
IRS.gov/Account.                                                 Don't send cash payments through the mail.
• IRS Direct Pay. For online transfers directly from your
checking or savings account at no cost to you, go to             Pay by Check or Money Order Using the
IRS.gov/Payments.                                                Estimated Tax Payment Voucher
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet. To pay by          Before submitting a payment through the mail using the
debit or credit card or digital wallet, go to IRS.gov/           estimated tax payment voucher, please consider
Payments. A fee is charged by these service                      alternative methods. One of our safe, quick, and easy
providers.You can also pay by phone with a debit or credit       online payment options might be right for you.
card. See Debit or credit card under Pay by Phone, later.
• Electronic Fund Withdrawal. (EFW) is an integrated                If you choose to mail in your payment, there is a
e-file/e-pay option offered when filing your federal taxes       separate estimated tax payment voucher for each due
electronically using tax preparation software, through a tax     date. The due date is shown in the upper right corner.
professional, or the IRS at IRS.gov/Payments.                    Complete and send in the voucher only if you are making
• Online Payment Agreement. If you can’t pay in full by          a payment by check or money order. If you and your
the due date of your tax return, you can apply for an online     spouse plan to file separate returns, file separate
monthly installment agreement at IRS.gov/OPA. Once you           vouchers instead of a joint voucher.
complete the online process, you will receive immediate
notification of whether your agreement has been                    To complete the voucher, do the following.
approved. A user fee is charged.                                 • Print or type your name, address, and SSN in the space
                                                                 provided on the estimated tax payment voucher. Enter
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)                    your SSN even if your SSN does not authorize
Allows you to pay your taxes online or by phone directly         employment or if you have been issued an SSN that
from your checking or saving account.There is no fee for         authorizes employment and you lose your employment
this service. You must be enrolled either online or have an      authorization. If you have an ITIN, enter it wherever your
enrollment form mailed to you. See EFTPS under Pay by            SSN is requested. An ITIN will not be issued to you once
Phone, later.                                                    you have been issued an SSN. If you received your SSN
                                                                 after previously using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use
Pay by Phone                                                     your SSN instead. If filing a joint voucher, also enter your
Paying by phone is another safe and secure method of             spouse's name and SSN. List the names and SSNs in the
paying electronically. Use one of the following methods:         same order on the joint voucher as you will list them on
(1) call one of the debit or credit card service providers, or   your joint return.
(2) the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)            • Enter in the box provided on the estimated tax payment
to pay directly from your checking or savings account.           voucher only the amount you are sending in by check or
                                                                 money order. When making payments of estimated tax, be
Debit or credit card. Call one of our service providers.         sure to take into account any 2024 overpayment that you
Each charges a fee that varies by provider, card type, and       choose to credit against your 2025 tax, but don’t include
payment amount.                                                  the overpayment amount in this box.
                                                                 • Make your check or money order payable to “United
    Link2Gov Corporation                                         States Treasury.” Don’t send cash. To help process your
    888-PAY-1040TM (888-729-1040)                                payment accurately, enter the amount on the right side of
    www.PAY1040.com                                              the check like this: $ XXX.XX. Don’t use dashes or lines
                                                                 (for example, don’t enter “$ XXX—” or “$ XXX xx/100”).
    ACI Payments, Inc.                                           • Enter “2025 Form 1040-ES” and your SSN on your
    888-UPAY-TAXTM (888-872-9829)                                check or money order. If you are filing a joint estimated tax
    fed.acipayonline.com                                         payment voucher, enter the SSN that you will show first on
                                                                 your joint return.
EFTPS. To get more information about EFTPS or to enroll          • Enclose, but don’t staple or attach, your payment with
in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To               the estimated tax payment voucher.
contact EFTPS using Telecommunications Relay Services               Notice to taxpayers presenting checks. When you
(TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a        provide a check as payment, you authorize us either to
speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the TRS             use information from your check to make a one-time
assistant the 800-555-4477 number above or                       electronic fund transfer from your account or to process
800-733-4829. Additional information about EFTPS is also         the payment as a check transaction. When we use
available in Pub. 966.                                           information from your check to make an electronic fund
                                                                 transfer, funds may be withdrawn from your account as
Mobile Device                                                    soon as the same day we receive your payment, and you
                                                                 will not receive your check back from your financial
To pay through your mobile device, download the IRS2Go           institution.
app.                                                                No checks of $100 million or more accepted. The
                                                                 IRS can’t accept a single check (including a cashier’s

4                                                                                                       Form 1040-ES (2025)
check) for amounts of $100,000,000 ($100 million) or                                       $100 million. This limit doesn’t apply to other methods of
more. If you are sending $100 million or more by check,                                    payment (such as electronic payments). Please consider
you will need to spread the payment over 2 or more                                         a method of payment other than check if the amount of the
checks with each check made out for an amount less than                                    payment is over $100 million.

Where To File Your Estimated Tax Payment Voucher if Paying by Check or Money Order
Mail your estimated tax payment voucher and check or money order to the address shown below for the place where you live. Do not mail your tax return to this address
or send an estimated tax payment without a payment voucher. Also, do not mail your estimated tax payments to the address shown in the Form 1040 instructions. If you
need more payment vouchers, you can make a copy of one of your unused vouchers.
Caution: Only the U.S. Postal Service can deliver to P.O. boxes. You can't use a private delivery service to make estimated tax payments required to be sent to a P.O. box.
For proper delivery of your estimated tax payment to a P.O. box, you must include the box number in the address.
IF you live in . . .                                               THEN send it to . . .    IF you live in . . .                                      THEN send it to . . .


Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia,                           Internal Revenue Service      A foreign country, American Samoa,                    Internal Revenue Service
Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico,                                      P.O. Box 1300      or Puerto Rico (or are excluding                                 P.O. Box 1303
North Carolina, South Carolina,                              Charlotte, NC 28201-1300       income under Internal Revenue                        Charlotte, NC 28201-1303
Tennessee, Texas                                                                            Code 933), or use an APO or FPO
                                                                                            address, or file Form 2555 or 4563,
                                                                                            or are a dual-status alien or
                                                                                            nonpermanent resident of Guam or
                                                                                            the U.S. Virgin Islands
Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware,                              Internal Revenue Service      Guam:                                                          Department of
District of Columbia, Illinois, Indiana,                                P.O. Box 931100     Bona fide residents*                                     Revenue and Taxation
Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,                             Louisville, KY 40293-1100                                                               Government of Guam
Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri,                                                                                                                       P.O. Box 23607
New Hampshire, New Jersey, New                                                                                                                            GMF, GU 96921
York, Oklahoma, Rhode Island,
Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia,
Wisconsin
Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii,                         Internal Revenue Service      U.S. Virgin Islands:                                     Virgin Islands Bureau
Idaho, Kansas, Michigan, Montana,                                      P.O. Box 802502      Bona fide residents*                                       of Internal Revenue
Nebraska, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon,                             Cincinnati, OH 45280-2502                                                               6115 Estate Smith Bay
North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South                                                                                                                                 Suite 225
Dakota, Utah, Washington, Wyoming                                                                                                                    St. Thomas, VI 00802
*Bona fide residents must prepare separate vouchers for estimated income tax and self-employment tax payments. Send the income tax vouchers to the address for
bona fide residents and the self-employment tax vouchers to the address for non-bona fide residents.




Instructions for the 2025 Estimated                                                        for each of you separately. Enter the total on line 9. When
                                                                                           estimating your 2025 net earnings from self-employment,
Tax Worksheet                                                                              be sure to use only 92.35% (0.9235) of your total net profit
                                                                                           from self-employment.
           If you file Form 1040-SS, use the 2025 Estimated
  !        Tax Worksheet for Filers of Form 1040-SS.                                       Line 10. Other taxes. Use the 2024 Instructions for Form
CAUTION                                                                                    1040 to determine if you expect to owe, for 2025, any of
                                                                                           the taxes that would have been entered on your 2024
Line 1. Adjusted gross income. When figuring the
                                                                                           Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 through 12, 14 through
adjusted gross income you expect in 2025, be sure to
                                                                                           17z, and line 19 (see Exception 2, later). On line 10, enter
consider the items listed under What’s New, earlier. For
                                                                                           the total of those taxes, subject to the following two
more details on figuring your AGI, see Expected
                                                                                           exceptions.
AGI—Line 1 in chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
                                                                                              Exception 1. Include household employment taxes
   If you are self-employed, be sure to take into account                                  from Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 9, on this line only if:
the deduction for self-employment tax. Use the 2025                                        • You will have federal income tax withheld from wages,
Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet for Lines                                      pensions, annuities, gambling winnings, or other income;
1 and 9 of the Estimated Tax Worksheet to figure the                                       or
amount to subtract when figuring your expected AGI. This                                   • You would be required to make estimated tax payments
worksheet will also give you the amount to enter on line 9                                 (to avoid a penalty) even if you didn’t include household
of your estimated tax worksheet.                                                           employment taxes when figuring your estimated tax.
Line 7. Credits. See the 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR,                                           If you meet either of the above, include the total of your
line 19, and Schedule 3 (Form 1040), lines 1 through 6z,                                   household employment taxes on line 10.
and the related instructions for the types of credits                                         Exception 2. Because the following taxes are not
allowed.                                                                                   required to be paid until the due date of your income tax
Line 9. Self-employment tax. If you and your spouse                                        (not including extensions), do not include them on line 10.
make joint estimated tax payments and both of you have                                     • Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax
self-employment income, figure the self-employment tax                                     on tips or group-term life insurance (Schedule 2, line 13),


Form 1040-ES (2025)                                                                                                                                                           5
2025 Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet for
Lines 1 and 9 of the Estimated Tax Worksheet                                                                                                           Keep for Your Records
    1a. Enter your expected income and profits subject to self-employment tax* . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              1a.
     b. If you will have farm income and also receive social security retirement or disability
        benefits, enter your expected Conservation Reserve Program payments that will be
        included on Schedule F (Form 1040) or listed on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) . . . . . . . . .                                     b.
     2. Subtract line 1b from line 1a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2.
     3. Multiply line 2 by 92.35% (0.9235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             3.
     4. Multiply line 3 by 2.9% (0.029) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4.
     5. Social security tax maximum income                   ......................................                                    5.          $176,100
     6. Enter your expected wages (if subject to social security tax or the 6.2% portion of
        tier 1 railroad retirement tax) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6.
     7. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7.
         Note. If line 7 is zero or less, enter -0- on line 9 and skip to line 10.
     8. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8.
     9. Multiply line 8 by 12.4% (0.124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9.
    10. Add lines 4 and 9. Enter the result here and on line 9 of your 2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  10.
    11. Multiply line 10 by 50% (0.50). This is your expected deduction for self-employment tax on
        Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15. Subtract this amount when figuring your expected AGI on
        line 1 of your 2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 11.

 * Your net profit from self-employment is found on Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040), line 34; and Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A.



• Recapture of federal mortgage subsidy (Schedule 2,                                                    • If you didn’t file a return for 2024 or your 2024 tax year
line 17b),                                                                                              was less than 12 full months, don’t complete line 12b.
• Excise tax on excess golden parachute payments                                                        Instead, enter the amount from line 12a on line 12c.
(Schedule 2, line 17k),                                                                                   Figuring your 2024 tax. Use the following instructions
• Excise tax on insider stock compensation from an                                                      to figure your 2024 tax.
expatriated corporation (Schedule 2, line 17m), and                                                        The tax shown on your 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR is
• Look-back interest under section 167(g) or 460(b)                                                     the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 24, reduced
(Schedule 2, line 17n).                                                                                 by:
   Additional Medicare Tax. For information about the
                                                                                                           1. Unreported social security and Medicare tax or
Additional Medicare Tax, see the Instructions for Form
                                                                                                        RRTA tax from Schedule 2 (Form 1040), lines 5 and 6;
8959.
   Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT). For information                                                       2. Any tax included on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8,
about the Net Investment Income Tax, see the Instructions                                               on excess contributions to an IRA, Archer MSA, Coverdell
for Form 8960.                                                                                          education savings account, health savings account, ABLE
                                                                                                        account, or on excess accumulations in qualified
Line 12b. Prior year's tax. Enter the 2024 tax you figure                                               retirement plans;
according to the instructions in Figuring your 2024 tax
                                                                                                           3. Amounts on Schedule 2 (Form 1040) as listed
unless you meet one of the following exceptions.
                                                                                                        under Exception 2, earlier; and
• If the AGI shown on your 2024 return is more than
$150,000 ($75,000 if married filing separately for 2025),                                                  4. Any refundable credit amounts on Form 1040 or
enter 110% of your 2024 tax as figured next.                                                            1040-SR, lines 27, 28, and 29, and Schedule 3 (Form
                                                                                                        1040), lines 9 and 12.
   Note. If at least two-thirds of your gross income for
2024 was from farming or fishing, this doesn't apply.
• If you will file a joint return for 2025 but you didn’t file a
joint return for 2024, add the tax shown on your 2024
return to the tax shown on your spouse's 2024 return and
enter the total on line 12b.
• If you filed a joint return for 2024 but you will not file a
joint return for 2025, first figure the tax both you and your
spouse would have paid had you filed separate returns for
2024 using the same filing status as for 2025. Then
multiply the tax on the joint return by a fraction, the
numerator being the tax you would have paid had you filed
a separate return, over the total tax you and your spouse
would have paid had you filed separate returns. Enter this
amount on line 12b.

6                                                                                                                                                                       Form 1040-ES (2025)
                                                                       2025 Tax Rate Schedules
Caution. Don’t use these Tax Rate Schedules to figure your 2024 taxes. Use only to figure your 2025 estimated taxes.
Schedule X—Use if your 2025 filing status is                                                         Schedule Z—Use if your 2025 filing status is
Single                                                                                               Head of household
If line 3                                                                                             If line 3
is:                                  The tax is:                                                      is:                                      The tax is:
                                                                             of the                                                                                        of the
                    But not                                                  amount                                         But not                                        amount
    Over—            over—                                                   over—                          Over—            over—                                         over—
        $0         $11,925           -----------        +   10%                             $0                 $0          $17,000             -----------    +     10%                  $0
    11,925           48,475          $1,192.50          +   12%                         11,925             17,000            64,850            $1,700.00      +     12%              17,000
    48,475         103,350             5,578.50         +   22%                         48,475             64,850          103,350               7,442.00     +     22%              64,850
   103,350         197,300           17,651.00          +   24%                        103,350            103,350          197,300             15,912.00      +     24%             103,350
   197,300         250,525           40,199.00          +   32%                        197,300            197,300          250,500             38,460.00      +     32%             197,300
   250,525         626,350           57,231.00          +   35%                        250,525            250,500          626,350             55,484.00      +     35%             250,500
   626,350         -----------      188,769.75          +   37%                        626,350            626,350          -----------        187,031.50      +     37%             626,350
Schedule Y-1— Use if your 2025 filing status is                                                      Schedule Y-2—Use if your 2025 filing status is
Married filing jointly or Qualifying surviving spouse                                                Married filing separately

If line 3                            The tax is:                                                      If line 3                                The tax is:
is:                                                                                                   is:
                                                                             of the                                                                                        of the
                    But not                                                  amount                                         But not                                        amount
    Over—            over—                                                   over—                          Over—            over—                                         over—
        $0          $23,850          -----------        +   10%                             $0                 $0          $11,925              ---------     +     10%                  $0
    23,850           96,950          $2,385.00          +   12%                         23,850             11,925            48,475            $1,192.50      +     12%              11,925
    96,950          206,700          11,157.00          +   22%                         96,950             48,475          103,350              5,578.50      +     22%              48,475
   206,700          394,600          35,302.00          +   24%                        206,700            103,350          197,300             17,651.00      +     24%             103,350
   394,600          501,050          80,398.00          +   32%                        394,600            197,300          250,525             40,199.00      +     32%             197,300
   501,050          751,600         114,462.00          +   35%                        501,050            250,525          375,800             57,231.00      +     35%             250,525
   751,600           ---------      202,154.50          +   37%                        751,600            375,800          -----------        101,077.25      +     37%             375,800




2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet for Filers of Form 1040-SS                                                                                                       Keep for Your Records
   1. Complete lines 1 through 10 of the 2025 Self-Employment Tax and Deduction Worksheet and enter the amount from
      line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1.
   2. Household employment taxes and the Additional Medicare Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                      2.
   3. Add lines 1 and 2          ................................................................                                                                           3.
   4. Bona fide residents of Puerto Rico only, enter the amount of your additional child tax credit (if any)                        ............                            4.
   5. Subtract line 4 from line 3. If less than the sum of $1,000 and household employment taxes, no payment is
      required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  5.
  6a. Multiple line 5 by 90% (66 2/3% for farming and fishing)                ........................................                                        6a.
   b. Enter the tax amount from your 2024 tax return (the amount from Form 1040-SS, line 7 minus the sum of Form
      1040-SS, lines 9 through 11b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6b.
   c. Enter the smaller of line 6a or 6b (minus the expected amount of Additional Medicare Tax withholding). This is the
      annual payment you must make . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            6c.
Caution: Generally, if you do not prepay at least the amount shown on line 6c, you may owe a penalty for not paying enough
estimated tax. To avoid a penalty, make sure your estimate on line 1 is as accurate as possible. If you are not sure of the
amount of estimated tax, and line 6a is smaller than line 6b, it would be convenient for you to pay an amount of at least the
amount shown on line 6b. Even if you pay the required annual payment, you may still owe tax when you file your return. If you
prefer, you can pay the amount shown on line 1. For details, see chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
   7. Amount of the installments. If the first payment you are required to make is due April 15, 2025, enter ¼ of line 6c
      (minus any 2024 overpayment that you are applying to this installment) here, and on your estimated tax payment
      voucher(s) if you are paying by check or money order. (Even when you are not required to make the payment due on
      April 15, 2025, your economic situation might change in a way that you might need to present a payment voucher and
      make a payment in the future. See Annualized Income Installment Method in chapter 2 of Pub. 505, for
      more information.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7.




Form 1040-ES (2025)                                                                                                                                                                       7
2025 Estimated Tax Worksheet                                                                                    Keep for Your Records
  1   Adjusted gross income you expect in 2025 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . .                      . .      1
  2a  Deductions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       . .     2a
      • If you plan to itemize deductions, enter the estimated total of your itemized deductions.
      • If you don’t plan to itemize deductions, enter your standard deduction.
    b If you can take the qualified business income deduction, enter the estimated amount of the deduction             2b
    c Add lines 2a and 2b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                        2c
  3   Subtract line 2c from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    3
  4   Tax. Figure your tax on the amount on line 3 by using the 2025 Tax Rate Schedules.
      Caution: If you will have qualified dividends or a net capital gain, or expect to exclude or deduct foreign
      earned income or housing, see Worksheets 2-5 and 2-6 in Pub. 505 to figure the tax        . . . . . .             4
  5    Alternative minimum tax from Form 6251 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   5
  6    Add lines 4 and 5. Add to this amount any other taxes you expect to include in the total on Form 1040
       or 1040-SR, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       6
 7     Credits (see instructions). Do not include any income tax withholding on this line . . . . . . .                  7
 8     Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         8
 9     Self-employment tax (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  9
10     Other taxes (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   10
11a    Add lines 8 through 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                      11a
   b   Earned income credit, additional child tax credit, fuel tax credit, net premium tax credit, refundable
       American opportunity credit, and section 1341 credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            11b
   c   Total 2025 estimated tax. Subtract line 11b from line 11a. If zero or less, enter -0-   .   .   .   .   .   .   11c

12a Multiply line 11c by 90% (662/3% for farming and fishing) . . . . . . .       12a
  b Required annual payment based on prior year’s tax (see instructions) . . .    12b
  c Required annual payment to avoid a penalty. Enter the smaller of line 12a or 12b .             .   .   .   .   .   12c
       Caution: Generally, if you do not prepay (through income tax withholding and estimated tax payments)
       at least the amount on line 12c, you may owe a penalty for not paying enough estimated tax. To avoid
       a penalty, make sure your estimate on line 11c is as accurate as possible. Even if you pay the required
       annual payment, you may still owe tax when you file your return. If you prefer, you can pay the amount
       shown on line 11c. For details, see chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
13     Income tax withheld and estimated to be withheld during 2025 (including income tax withholding on
       pensions, annuities, certain deferred income, and Additional Medicare Tax withholding) . . . . .                13

14a  Subtract line 13 from line 12c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  14a
     Is the result zero or less?
          Yes. Stop here. You are not required to make estimated tax payments.
          No. Go to line 14b.
   b Subtract line 13 from line 11c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  14b
     Is the result less than $1,000?
          Yes. Stop here. You are not required to make estimated tax payments.
          No. Go to line 15 to figure your required payment.
15   If the first payment you are required to make is due April 15, 2025, enter ¼ of line 14a (minus any
     2024 overpayment that you are applying to this installment) here, and on your estimated tax payment
     voucher(s) if you are paying by check or money order . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              15




Form 1040-ES (2025)                                                -8-
Record of Estimated Tax Payments (Farming, fishing, and fiscal
year taxpayers, see Payment Due Dates.)                                                                                                     Keep for Your Records


                                                                                     (c) Check or
Payment




           Payment                                                                                                  (d) Amount paid         (e) 2024         (f) Total amount
number




                                (a) Amount               (b) Date               money order number, or
             due                                                                                                     (do not include     overpayment        paid and credited
                                    due                    paid                   credit or debit card
             date                                                                                                 any convenience fee)   credit applied      (add (d) and (e))
                                                                                 confirmation number


  1       4/15/2025

  2       6/16/2025

  3       9/15/2025

  4       1/15/2026*


 Total      .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .   .   .
*You do not have to make this payment if you file your 2025 tax return by February 2, 2026, and pay the entire balance due with your return.


Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for this                                     We may disclose it to cities, states, the District of Columbia, and U.S.
information to carry out the tax laws of the United States. We need it to                           commonwealths or territories to carry out their tax laws. We may also
figure and collect the right amount of tax. Our legal right to ask for this                         disclose this information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal
information is Internal Revenue Code section 6654, which requires that                              and state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or to federal
you pay your taxes in a specified manner to avoid being penalized.                                  law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.
Additionally, sections 6001, 6011, and 6012(a) and their regulations                                    If you do not file a return, do not give the information asked for, or
require you to file a return or statement for any tax for which you are                             give fraudulent information, you may be charged penalties and be
liable; section 6109 requires you to provide your identifying number.                               subject to criminal prosecution.
Failure to provide this information, or providing false or fraudulent
information, may subject you to penalties.                                                              Please keep this notice with your records. It may help you if we ask
                                                                                                    you for other information. If you have any questions about the rules for
   You are not required to provide the information requested on a form                              filing and giving information, please call or visit any Internal Revenue
that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays                             Service office.
a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its
instructions must be retained as long as their contents may become                                      The average time and expenses required to complete and file this
material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax                          form will vary depending on individual circumstances. For the estimated
returns and return information are confidential, as stated in Code section                          averages, see the instructions for your income tax return.
6103.                                                                                                   If you have suggestions for making this package simpler, we would be
   We may disclose the information to the Department of Justice for civil                           happy to hear from you. See the instructions for your income tax return.
and criminal litigation and to other federal agencies, as provided by law.




                                                                                            -9-                                                       Form 1040-ES (2025)
              Need to make a payment?
            Save time by paying online. Paying
             online is convenient and secure.
      The IRS offers easy ways to electronically pay your taxes.
              Use Your                                                            Pay by                                                 Pay by
            Online Account                                                     Bank Account                                               Card
                                    (no fees)                                         (no fees)                                  (processing fees apply)

• Go to www.irs.gov/Account to login                                  • Use Direct Pay online to make an                  • Pay online or by phone.
  and make a payment.                                                   individual tax payment from your
                                                                        checking or savings account without               • When e-filing pay through tax
• Make a tax payment online directly                                    registration.                                       preparation software.
  from your checking or savings account.
                                                                      • Register for the Electronic Federal Tax           • Processing fees go to a payment
• View your balance, payment plan                                       Payment System (EFTPS) to make                      processor and limits apply. The IRS
  details and options, digital copies of                                one-time or recurring payments from                 does not receive any fees.
  certain notices, and more.                                            your checking or savings account.
                                                                      • When you e-file with tax software or a
                                                                        tax professional, you can schedule an
                                                                        electronic funds withdrawal (EFW).

                                                   Go to www.irs.gov/Payments for more details or to make a payment.




                                                                                    Separate here.


                                1040-ES
                                                             2025 Estimated Tax                                                Payment
                                                                                                                                            4
                 Form




                                Department of the Treasury
                                Internal Revenue Service                                                                       Voucher                OMB No. 1545-0074
                                                                                                                              Calendar year—Due Jan. 15, 2026
                File only if you are making a payment of estimated tax by check or money order. Mail this
                voucher with your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury.” Write your                        Amount of estimated tax you are paying
                social security number and “2025 Form 1040-ES” on your check or money order. Do not send                      by check or
                cash. Enclose, but do not staple or attach, your payment with this voucher.                                   money order.

                                 Your first name and middle initial                             Your last name                           Your social security number


Pay online at                     If joint payment, complete for spouse
www.irs.gov/                     Spouse’s first name and middle initial                         Spouse’s last name                       Spouse’s social security number
                Print or type




etpay

Simple.                          Address (number, street, and apt. no.)
Fast.
Secure.
                                 City, town, or post office. If you have a foreign address, also complete spaces below.       State                ZIP code


                                 Foreign country name                                           Foreign province/county                  Foreign postal code


                For Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.                                              Form 1040-ES (2025)
                                                                                         -10-
                                1040-ES
                                                             2025 Estimated Tax                                           Payment
                                                                                                                                        3
                 Form
                                Department of the Treasury
                                Internal Revenue Service                                                                  Voucher                 OMB No. 1545-0074
                                                                                                                          Calendar year—Due Sept. 15, 2025
                File only if you are making a payment of estimated tax by check or money order. Mail this
                voucher with your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury.” Write your                    Amount of estimated tax you are paying
                social security number and “2025 Form 1040-ES” on your check or money order. Do not send                  by check or
                cash. Enclose, but do not staple or attach, your payment with this voucher.                               money order.

                                 Your first name and middle initial                             Your last name                       Your social security number


Pay online at                     If joint payment, complete for spouse
www.irs.gov/                     Spouse’s first name and middle initial                         Spouse’s last name                   Spouse’s social security number
                Print or type




etpay

Simple.                          Address (number, street, and apt. no.)
Fast.
Secure.
                                 City, town, or post office. If you have a foreign address, also complete spaces below.   State                ZIP code


                                 Foreign country name                                           Foreign province/county              Foreign postal code


                For Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.

                                                                                    Separate here.


                                1040-ES
                                                             2025 Estimated Tax                                           Payment
                                                                                                                                        2
                 Form




                                Department of the Treasury
                                Internal Revenue Service                                                                  Voucher                 OMB No. 1545-0074
                                                                                                                          Calendar year—Due June 16, 2025
                File only if you are making a payment of estimated tax by check or money order. Mail this
                voucher with your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury.” Write your                    Amount of estimated tax you are paying
                social security number and “2025 Form 1040-ES” on your check or money order. Do not send                  by check or
                cash. Enclose, but do not staple or attach, your payment with this voucher.                               money order.

                                 Your first name and middle initial                             Your last name                       Your social security number


Pay online at                     If joint payment, complete for spouse
www.irs.gov/                     Spouse’s first name and middle initial                         Spouse’s last name                   Spouse’s social security number
                Print or type




etpay

Simple.                          Address (number, street, and apt. no.)
Fast.
Secure.
                                 City, town, or post office. If you have a foreign address, also complete spaces below.   State                ZIP code


                                 Foreign country name                                           Foreign province/county              Foreign postal code


                For Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.

                                                                                    Separate here.


                                1040-ES
                                                             2025 Estimated Tax
                                                                                                                          Payment
                                                                                                                                        1
                 Form




                                Department of the Treasury
                                Internal Revenue Service                                                                  Voucher                 OMB No. 1545-0074
                                                                                                                          Calendar year—Due April 15, 2025
                File only if you are making a payment of estimated tax by check or money order. Mail this
                voucher with your check or money order payable to “United States Treasury.” Write your                    Amount of estimated tax you are paying
                social security number and “2025 Form 1040-ES” on your check or money order. Do not send                  by check or
                cash. Enclose, but do not staple or attach, your payment with this voucher.                               money order.

                                 Your first name and middle initial                             Your last name                       Your social security number


Pay online at                     If joint payment, complete for spouse
www.irs.gov/                     Spouse’s first name and middle initial                         Spouse’s last name                   Spouse’s social security number
                Print or type




etpay

Simple.                          Address (number, street, and apt. no.)
Fast.
Secure.
                                 City, town, or post office. If you have a foreign address, also complete spaces below.   State                ZIP code


                                 Foreign country name                                           Foreign province/county              Foreign postal code


                For Disclosure, Privacy Act, and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see instructions.                                        Form 1040-ES (2025)
                                                                                         -11-
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




               -12-

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
