# i941_6

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:38:51  
**Original File:** i941_6.pdf

---

## Content

Instructions for Form 941
(Rev. March 2025)
Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code             Act (FFCRA) and amended and extended by the
unless otherwise noted.                                         COVID-related Tax Relief Act of 2020, for leave taken after
                                                                March 31, 2020, and before April 1, 2021, and the credit
Future Developments                                             for qualified sick and family leave wages under sections
                                                                3131, 3132, and 3133 of the Internal Revenue Code, as
For the latest information about developments related to        enacted under the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (the
Form 941 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted      ARP), for leave taken after March 31, 2021, and before
after they were published, go to IRS.gov/Form941.               October 1, 2021, have expired. However, employers that
                                                                pay qualified sick and family leave wages in 2025 for leave
                                                                taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021,
What's New                                                      are eligible to claim a credit for qualified sick and family
Social security and Medicare taxes for 2025. The                leave wages in 2025. Effective for tax periods beginning
social security tax rate is 6.2% each for the employee and      after December 31, 2023, the lines used to claim the
employer. The social security wage base limit is $176,100.      credit for qualified sick and family leave wages have been
   The Medicare tax rate is 1.45% each for the employee         removed from Form 941 because it would be extremely
and employer, unchanged from 2024. There is no wage             rare for an employer to pay wages after December 31,
base limit for Medicare tax.                                    2023, for qualified sick and family leave taken after March
                                                                31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021. Instead, if you're
   Social security and Medicare taxes apply to the wages        eligible to claim the credit for qualified sick and family
of household workers you pay $2,800 or more in cash             leave wages because you paid the wages in 2025 for an
wages in 2025. Social security and Medicare taxes apply         earlier applicable leave period, file Form 941-X, after filing
to election workers who are paid $2,400 or more in cash         Form 941, to claim the credit for qualified sick and family
or an equivalent form of compensation in 2025.                  leave wages paid in 2025. Filing a Form 941-X before
Electronic filing of Form 941-X. You can now file Form          filing a Form 941 for the quarter may result in errors or
941-X, Adjusted Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax                delays in processing your Form 941-X.
Return or Claim for Refund, electronically using                Qualified small business payroll tax credit for in-
Modernized e-File (MeF). For more information on                creasing research activities. For tax years beginning
electronic filing, go to IRS.gov/EmploymentEfile.               before January 1, 2023, a qualified small business may
Reminders                                                       elect to claim up to $250,000 of its credit for increasing
                                                                research activities as a payroll tax credit. The Inflation
         Use the March 2025 revision of Form 941 to report      Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) increases the election
  !      taxes for the first quarter of 2025; don't use an      amount to $500,000 for tax years beginning after
 CAUTION earlier revision to report taxes for 2025. At this     December 31, 2022. The payroll tax credit election must
time, the IRS expects the March 2025 revision of Form           be made on or before the due date of the originally filed
941 and these instructions to also be used for the second,      income tax return (including extensions). The portion of
third, and fourth quarters of 2025. If changes in law require   the credit used against payroll taxes is allowed in the first
additional changes to Form 941, the form and/or these           calendar quarter beginning after the date that the qualified
instructions may be revised. Prior revisions of Form 941        small business filed its income tax return. The election
are available at IRS.gov/Form941 (select the link for “All      and determination of the credit amount that will be used
Form 941 revisions” under “Other items you may find             against the employer’s payroll taxes are made on Form
useful”).                                                       6765, Credit for Increasing Research Activities. The
                                                                amount from Form 6765 must then be reported on Form
        Unless otherwise noted, references throughout           8974, Qualified Small Business Payroll Tax Credit for
 TIP these instructions to Form W-2 include Forms               Increasing Research Activities.
        W-2AS, W-2CM, W-2GU, W-2VI, and 499R-2/
                                                                    Starting in the first quarter of 2023, the payroll tax credit
W-2PR; references to Form W-2c include Form                     is first used to reduce the employer share of social
499R-2c/W-2cPR; references to Form W-3 include Form             security tax up to $250,000 per quarter and any remaining
W-3SS and Form W-3 (PR); and references to Form W-3c            credit reduces the employer share of Medicare tax for the
include Form W-3C (PR).                                         quarter. Any remaining credit, after reducing the employer
                                                                share of social security tax and the employer share of
The COVID-19 related credit for qualified sick and
                                                                Medicare tax, is then carried forward to the next quarter.
family leave wages is limited to leave taken after
                                                                Form 8974 is used to determine the amount of the credit
March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021, and may
                                                                that can be used in the current quarter. The amount from
no longer be claimed on Form 941. Generally, the
                                                                Form 8974, line 12 or, if applicable, line 17, is reported on
credit for qualified sick and family leave wages, as
                                                                line 11. For more information about the payroll tax credit,
enacted under the Families First Coronavirus Response
                               Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025) Catalog Number 14625L
Feb 25, 2025                  Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
go to IRS.gov/ResearchPayrollTC. Also see Adjusting tax             individual who performs services for a customer of the
liability for the qualified small business payroll tax credit for   CPEO and is covered by a contract described in section
increasing research activities (line 11), later.                    7705(e)(2) between the CPEO and the customer (CPEO
                                                                    contract), but only for wages and other compensation paid
Forms 941-SS and 941-PR discontinued after 2023.
Form 941-SS, Employer’s QUARTERLY Federal Tax                       to the individual by the CPEO. To become a CPEO, the
Return—American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of                    organization must apply through the IRS Online
the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands;          Registration System. For more information or to apply to
and Form 941-PR, Planilla para la Declaración Federal               become a CPEO, go to IRS.gov/CPEO.
TRIMESTRAL del Patrono, were discontinued after the                    CPEOs must generally file Form 941 and Schedule R
fourth quarter of 2023. Instead, employers in the U.S.              (Form 941), Allocation Schedule for Aggregate Form 941
territories file Form 941 or, if you prefer your form and           Filers, electronically. For more information about a CPEO’s
instructions in Spanish, you can file Form 941 (sp).                requirement to file electronically, see Rev. Proc. 2023-18,
                                                                    2023-13 I.R.B. 605, available at IRS.gov/irb/
Pubs. 51, 80, and 179 discontinued after 2023. Pub.                 2023-13_IRB#REV-PROC-2023-18.
51, Agricultural Employer’s Tax Guide; Pub. 80, Federal
Tax Guide for Employers in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,           Outsourcing payroll duties. Generally, as an employer,
American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern                you're responsible to ensure that tax returns are filed and
Mariana Islands; and Pub. 179, Guía Contributiva Federal            deposits and payments are made, even if you contract
para Patronos Puertorriqueños, were discontinued for tax            with a third party to perform these acts. You remain
years beginning after December 31, 2023. Instead,                   responsible if the third party fails to perform any required
information specific to agricultural employers and                  action. Before you choose to outsource any of your payroll
employers in the U.S. territories is included in Pub. 15,           and related tax duties (that is, withholding, reporting, and
Employer's Tax Guide. If you prefer Pub. 15 in Spanish,             paying over social security, Medicare, FUTA, and income
see Pub. 15 (sp).                                                   taxes) to a third-party payer, such as a payroll service
                                                                    provider or reporting agent, go to IRS.gov/
Forms in Spanish. Many forms and instructions                       OutsourcingPayrollDuties for helpful information on this
discussed in these instructions have Spanish-language               topic. If a CPEO pays wages and other compensation to
versions available for employers and employees. Some                an individual performing services for you, and the services
examples include Form 941 (sp), Form 944 (sp), Form                 are covered by a CPEO contract, then the CPEO is
SS-4 (sp), Form W-4 (sp), and Form W-9 (sp). Although               generally treated for employment tax purposes as the
these instructions don't reference Spanish-language                 employer, but only for wages and other compensation
forms and instructions in each instance that one is                 paid to the individual by the CPEO. However, with respect
available, you can see Pub. 15 (sp) and go to IRS.gov/              to certain employees covered by a CPEO contract, you
SpanishForms to determine if a Spanish-language version             may also be treated as an employer of the employees
is available.                                                       and, consequently, may also be liable for federal
Payroll tax credit for certain tax-exempt organiza-                 employment taxes imposed on wages and other
tions affected by qualified disasters. Section 303(d) of            compensation paid by the CPEO to such employees. For
the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020          more information on the different types of third-party payer
allows for a payroll tax credit for certain tax-exempt              arrangements, see section 16 of Pub. 15.
organizations affected by certain qualified disasters not           Aggregate Form 941 filers. Approved section 3504
related to COVID-19. This credit is claimed on Form                 agents and CPEOs must complete and file Schedule R
5884-D (not on Form 941). Form 5884-D is filed after the            (Form 941) when filing an aggregate Form 941. Aggregate
Form 941 for the quarter for which the credit is being              Forms 941 are filed by agents approved by the IRS under
claimed has been filed. For more information about this             section 3504. To request approval to act as an agent for
credit, go to IRS.gov/Form5884D.                                    an employer, the agent files Form 2678 with the IRS
2025 withholding tables. The federal income tax                     unless you're a state or local government agency acting
withholding tables are included in Pub. 15-T, Federal               as an agent under the special procedures provided in Rev.
Income Tax Withholding Methods.                                     Proc. 2013-39, 2013-52 I.R.B. 830, available at
                                                                    IRS.gov/irb/2013-52_IRB#RP-2013-39. Aggregate Forms
Certification program for professional employer or-                 941 are also filed by CPEOs approved by the IRS under
ganizations (PEOs). The Stephen Beck, Jr., Achieving a              section 7705. To become a CPEO, the organization must
Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 required the              apply through the IRS Online Registration System at
IRS to establish a voluntary certification program for              IRS.gov/CPEO. CPEOs file Form 8973, Certified
PEOs. PEOs handle various payroll administration and tax            Professional Employer Organization/Customer Reporting
reporting responsibilities for their business clients and are       Agreement, to notify the IRS that they started or ended a
typically paid a fee based on payroll costs. To become and          service contract with a customer. CPEOs must generally
remain certified under the certification program, certified         file Form 941 and Schedule R (Form 941) electronically.
professional employer organizations (CPEOs) must meet               For more information about a CPEO’s requirement to file
various requirements described in sections 3511 and                 electronically, see Rev. Proc. 2023-18.
7705 and related published guidance. Certification as a
                                                                        Other third-party payers that file aggregate Forms 941,
CPEO may affect the employment tax liabilities of both the
                                                                    such as non-certified PEOs, must complete and file
CPEO and its customers. A CPEO is generally treated for
                                                                    Schedule R (Form 941) if they have clients that are
employment tax purposes as the employer of any


2                                                                                       Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
claiming the qualified small business payroll tax credit for        Same-day wire payment option. If you fail to submit a
increasing research activities.                                  deposit transaction on EFTPS by 8 p.m. Eastern time the
                                                                 day before the date a deposit is due, you can still make
        If both an employer and a section 3504 authorized
                                                                 your deposit on time by using the Federal Tax Collection
 TIP agent (or CPEO or other third-party payer) paid
                                                                 Service (FTCS) to make a same-day wire payment. To use
        wages to an employee during a quarter, both the
                                                                 the same-day wire payment method, you will need to
employer and the section 3504 authorized agent (or
                                                                 make arrangements with your financial institution ahead of
CPEO or other third-party payer, if applicable) should file
                                                                 time. Please check with your financial institution regarding
Form 941 reporting the wages each entity paid to the
                                                                 availability, deadlines, and costs. Your financial institution
employee during the applicable quarter and issue Forms
                                                                 may charge you a fee for payments made this way. To
W-2 reporting the wages each entity paid to the employee
                                                                 learn more about the information you will need to give your
during the year.
                                                                 financial institution to make a same-day wire payment, go
Work opportunity tax credit for qualified tax-exempt             to IRS.gov/SameDayWire.
organizations hiring qualified veterans. Qualified                  Timeliness of federal tax deposits. If a deposit is
tax-exempt organizations that hire eligible unemployed           required to be made on a day that isn't a business day, the
veterans may be able to claim the work opportunity tax           deposit is considered timely if it is made by the close of
credit against their payroll tax liability using Form 5884-C.    the next business day. A business day is any day other
For more information, go to IRS.gov/WOTC.                        than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. The term “legal
                                                                 holiday” for deposit purposes includes only those legal
Correcting a previously filed Form 941. If you discover          holidays in the District of Columbia. Legal holidays in the
an error on a previously filed Form 941, or if you otherwise     District of Columbia are provided in section 11 of Pub. 15.
need to amend a previously filed Form 941, make the
correction using Form 941-X. Form 941-X is filed                 Electronic filing and payment. Businesses can enjoy
separately from Form 941. You can now file Form 941-X            the benefits of filing tax returns and paying their federal
electronically. For more information, see the Instructions       taxes electronically. Whether you rely on a tax
for Form 941-X, section 13 of Pub. 15, or go to IRS.gov/         professional or handle your own taxes, the IRS offers you
CorrectingEmploymentTaxes.                                       convenient and secure programs to make filing and paying
                                                                 easier. Spend less time worrying about taxes and more
Federal tax deposits must be made by electronic                  time running your business. Use e-file and electronic
funds transfer (EFT). You must use EFT to make all               payment options to your benefit.
federal tax deposits. An EFT can be made using the               • For e-file, go to IRS.gov/EmploymentEfile for additional
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS), IRS               information. A fee may be charged to file electronically.
Direct Pay, or your IRS business tax account. If you don't       • For electronic payment options, go to IRS.gov/
want to use one of these methods, you can arrange for            Payments.
your tax professional, financial institution, payroll service,   • For electronic filing of Forms W-2, Wage and Tax
or other trusted third party to make electronic deposits on      Statement, go to SSA.gov/employer. You may be required
your behalf. Also, you may arrange for your financial            to file Forms W-2 electronically. For details, see the
institution to initiate a same-day wire payment on your          General Instructions for Forms W-2 and W-3. The Social
behalf. EFTPS is a free service provided by the                  Security Administration's Business Services Online (BSO)
Department of the Treasury. Payments made using IRS              is an independent program from the Government of
Direct Pay or through your IRS business tax account are          Puerto Rico electronic filing system. Employers in Puerto
also free. Services provided by your tax professional,           Rico must go to Hacienda.pr.gov for additional
financial institution, payroll service, or other third party     information.
may have a fee.
                                                                           If you’re filing your tax return or paying your federal
   For more information on depositing taxes, see section
                                                                    !      taxes electronically, a valid employer identification
11 of Pub. 15. For more information about IRS Direct Pay          CAUTION number (EIN) is required at the time the return is
and making payments through your IRS business tax
                                                                 filed or the payment is made. If a valid EIN isn't provided,
account, go to IRS.gov/Payments. For more information
                                                                 the return or payment won't be processed. This may result
about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, go to EFTPS.gov or
                                                                 in penalties. See Employer identification number (EIN),
call one of the following numbers.
                                                                 later, for information about applying for an EIN.
• 800-555-4477.
• 800-244-4829 (Spanish).                                          Electronic funds withdrawal (EFW). If you file Form
• 303-967-5916 (toll call).                                      941 electronically, you can e-file and use EFW to pay the
   To contact EFTPS using Telecommunications Relay               balance due in a single step using tax preparation
Services (TRS) for people who are deaf, hard of hearing,         software or through a tax professional. However, don't use
or have a speech disability, dial 711 and then provide the       EFW to make federal tax deposits. For more information
TRS assistant the 800-555-4477 number above or                   on paying your taxes using EFW, go to IRS.gov/EFW.
800-733-4829. Additional information about EFTPS is also         Credit or debit card payments. You can pay the
available in Pub. 966.                                           balance due shown on Form 941 by credit or debit card.
        Generally, for an EFTPS deposit to be on time,           Your payment will be processed by a payment processor
        you must submit the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern            who will charge a processing fee. Don't use a credit or
  !
CAUTION time the day before the date the deposit is due.         debit card to make federal tax deposits. For more



Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                         3
information on paying your taxes with a credit or debit         Who Must File Form 941?
card, go to IRS.gov/PayByCard.
Online payment agreement. You may be eligible to                If you pay wages subject to federal income tax withholding
apply for an installment agreement online if you can't pay      or social security and Medicare taxes, you must file Form
the full amount of tax you owe when you file your return.       941 quarterly to report the following amounts.
For more information, see What if you can't pay in full,        • Wages you’ve paid.
later.                                                          • Tips your employees reported to you.
                                                                • Federal income tax you withheld.
Paid preparers. If you use a paid preparer to complete          • Both the employer and the employee share of social
Form 941, the paid preparer must complete and sign the          security and Medicare taxes.
paid preparer's section of the form.                            • Additional Medicare Tax withheld from employees.
Where can you get telephone help? For answers to                • Current quarter's adjustments to social security and
your questions about completing Form 941 or tax deposit         Medicare taxes for fractions of cents, sick pay, tips, and
rules, you can call the IRS at 800-829-4933 or                  group-term life insurance.
800-829-4059 (TDD/TTY for persons who are deaf, hard            • Qualified small business payroll tax credit for increasing
of hearing, or have a speech disability), Monday–Friday         research activities.
from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. local time (Alaska and Hawaii          Don't use Form 941 to report backup withholding or
follow Pacific time).                                           income tax withholding on nonpayroll payments such as
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud             pensions, annuities, and gambling winnings. Report these
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited        types of withholding on Form 945, Annual Return of
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children              Withheld Federal Income Tax. Also, don't use Form 941 to
selected by the Center may appear in instructions on            report unemployment taxes. Report unemployment taxes
pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring         on Form 940, Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment
these children home by looking at the photographs and           (FUTA) Tax Return.
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you
                                                                    After you file your first Form 941, you must file a return
recognize a child.
                                                                for each quarter, even if you have no taxes to report,
                                                                unless you filed a final return or one of the exceptions
General Instructions:                                           listed next applies.

Purpose of Form 941                                             Exceptions
                                                                Special rules apply to some employers.
These instructions give you some background information         • If you received notification to file Form 944, Employer's
about Form 941. They tell you who must file Form 941,           ANNUAL Federal Tax Return, you must file Form 944
how to complete it line by line, and when and where to file     annually; don't file Form 941 quarterly.
it.                                                             • Seasonal employers don't have to file a Form 941 for
   If you want more in-depth information about payroll tax      quarters in which they have no tax liability because they
topics relating to Form 941, see Pub. 15 or go to IRS.gov/      have paid no wages. To tell the IRS that you won't file a
EmploymentTaxes.                                                return for one or more quarters during the year, check the
                                                                box on line 18 every quarter you file Form 941. See
         References to federal income tax withholding           section 12 of Pub. 15 for more information.
    !    don't apply to employers in American Samoa,            • Employers of household employees don't usually file
 CAUTION Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
                                                                Form 941. See Pub. 926 and Schedule H (Form 1040) for
Mariana Islands (CNMI), the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI),         more information.
and Puerto Rico, unless you have employees who are              • Employers of farm employees don't file Form 941 for
subject to U.S. income tax withholding. Contact your local      wages paid for agricultural labor. See Form 943 and Pub.
tax department for information about income tax                 15 for more information.
withholding.
                                                                        If none of these exceptions apply and you haven't
   Federal law requires you, as an employer, to withhold         TIP filed a final return, you must file Form 941 each
certain taxes from your employees' pay. Each time you                   quarter even if you didn't pay wages during the
pay wages, you must withhold—or take out of your                quarter. Use IRS e-file, if possible.
employees' pay—certain amounts for federal income tax,
social security tax, and Medicare tax. You must also            Requesting To File Forms 941 Instead of Form
withhold Additional Medicare Tax from wages you pay to          944, or Requesting To File Form 944 Instead of
an employee in excess of $200,000 in a calendar year.           Forms 941
Under the withholding system, taxes withheld from your
employees are credited to your employees in payment of          Requesting to file Forms 941 instead of Form 944.
their tax liabilities.                                          Employers that would otherwise be required to file Form
                                                                944 may contact the IRS to request to file quarterly Forms
   Federal law also requires you to pay any liability for the   941 instead of annual Form 944. To request to file
employer share of social security and Medicare taxes.           quarterly Forms 941 to report your social security and
This share of social security and Medicare taxes isn't          Medicare taxes for the 2025 calendar year, you must
withheld from employees.                                        either call the IRS at 800-829-4933 between January 1,

4                                                                                     Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
2025, and April 1, 2025, or send a written request                • The name of the person keeping the payroll records and
postmarked between January 1, 2025, and March 17,                 the address where those records will be kept.
2025. After you contact the IRS, the IRS will send you a
written notice that your filing requirement has been              If Your Business Has Closed . . .
changed to Forms 941. You must receive written notice
from the IRS to file Forms 941 instead of Form 944 before         If you permanently go out of business or stop paying
you may file these forms. If you don't receive this notice,       wages to your employees, you must file a final return. To
you must file Form 944 for calendar year 2025.                    tell the IRS that Form 941 for a particular quarter is your
Requesting to file Form 944 instead of Forms 941. If              final return, check the box on line 17 and enter the final
you’re required to file Forms 941 but believe your                date you paid wages. Also attach a statement to your
employment taxes for calendar year 2025 will be $1,000            return showing the name of the person keeping the payroll
or less, you may request to file Form 944 instead of Forms        records and the address where those records will be kept.
941 by calling the IRS at 800-829-4933 between January
1, 2025, and April 1, 2025, or sending a written request              See Terminating a business in the General Instructions
postmarked between January 1, 2025, and March 17,                 for Forms W-2 and W-3 for information about earlier dates
2025. After you contact the IRS, the IRS will send you a          for the expedited furnishing and filing of Forms W-2 when
written notice that your filing requirement has been              a final Form 941 is filed.
changed to Form 944. You must receive written notice
from the IRS to file Form 944 instead of Forms 941 before            If you participated in a statutory merger or
you may file this form. If you don't receive this notice, you     consolidation, or qualify for predecessor-successor status
must file Forms 941 for calendar year 2025.                       due to an acquisition, you should generally file
                                                                  Schedule D (Form 941), Report of Discrepancies Caused
Where to send written requests. Written requests                  by Acquisitions, Statutory Mergers, or Consolidations. See
should be sent to:                                                the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 941) to determine
                                                                  whether you should file Schedule D (Form 941) and when
Department of the Treasury           Department of the Treasury   you should file it.
Internal Revenue Service     or      Internal Revenue Service
Ogden, UT 84201-0038                 Cincinnati, OH 45999-0038    When Must You File?
                                                                  File your initial Form 941 for the quarter in which you first
                                                                  paid wages that are subject to social security and
   If you would mail your return filed without a payment to
                                                                  Medicare taxes or subject to federal income tax
Ogden, as shown under Where Should You File, later,
                                                                  withholding. See the table titled When To File Form 941,
send your request to the Ogden address shown above. If
                                                                  later.
you would mail your return filed without a payment to
Kansas City, send your request to the address for                    Then, you must file for every quarter after that—every 3
Cincinnati shown above. For more information about these          months—even if you have no taxes to report, unless you’re
procedures, see Rev. Proc. 2009-51, 2009-45 I.R.B. 625,           a seasonal employer or are filing your final return. See
available at IRS.gov/irb/2009-45_IRB#RP-2009-51.                  Seasonal employers and If Your Business Has Closed,
                                                                  earlier.
What if You Reorganize or Close Your Business?
If You Sell or Transfer Your Business . . .                          File Form 941 only once for each quarter. If you filed
                                                                  electronically, don't file a paper Form 941. For more
If you sell or transfer your business during the quarter, you     information about filing Form 941 electronically, see
and the new owner must each file a Form 941 for the               Electronic filing and payment, earlier.
quarter in which the transfer occurred. Report only the
wages you paid.                                                   When To File Form 941
                                                                   Your Form 941 is due by the last day of the month that follows the end of the
    When two businesses merge, the continuing firm must            quarter.
file a return for the quarter in which the change took place
                                                                                                                                     Form 941
and the other firm should file a final return.                     The Quarter Includes . . .                   Quarter Ends         Is Due

   Changing from one form of business to another—such              1. January, February, March                  March 31             April 30
as from a sole proprietorship to a partnership or                  2. April, May, June                          June 30              July 31
corporation—is considered a transfer. If a transfer occurs,        3. July, August, September                   September 30         October 31
you may need a new EIN. See Pub. 1635 and section 1 of             4. October, November, December               December 31          January 31
Pub. 15 for more information.
                                                                     For example, you must generally report wages you pay
  Attach a statement to your return with:                         during the 1st quarter—which is January through
• The new owner's name (or the new name of the                    March—by April 30. If you made timely deposits in full
business);                                                        payment of your taxes for the quarter, you may file by the
• Whether the business is now a sole proprietorship,              10th day of the 2nd month that follows the end of the
partnership, or corporation;                                      quarter. For example, you may file Form 941 by May 10 if
• The kind of change that occurred (a sale or transfer);          you made timely deposits in full payment of your taxes for
• The date of the change; and                                     the 1st quarter.

Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                                            5
   If we receive Form 941 after the due date, we will treat        On Form W-3 (PR), “Other EIN used this year” is reported
Form 941 as filed on time if the envelope containing Form          in box f. Filing a Form 941 with an incorrect EIN or using
941 is properly addressed, contains sufficient postage,            another business's EIN may result in penalties and delays
and is postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) on             in processing your return.
or before the due date, or sent by an IRS-designated
private delivery service (PDS) on or before the due date. If       If you change your business name, business ad-
you don't follow these guidelines, we will generally               dress, or responsible party... Notify the IRS
consider Form 941 filed when it is actually received. For          immediately if you change your business name, business
more information about PDSs, see Where Should You                  address, or responsible party.
File, later.                                                       • Write to the IRS office where you file your returns (using
                                                                   the Without a payment address under Where Should You
   If any due date for filing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or      File, later) to notify the IRS of any business name change.
legal holiday, you may file your return on the next business       See Pub.1635 to see if you need to apply for a new EIN.
day.                                                               • Complete and mail Form 8822-B to notify the IRS of a
How Should You Complete Form 941?                                  business address or responsible party change. Don't mail
                                                                   Form 8822-B with your Form 941. For a definition of
Type or print your EIN, name, and address in the spaces            “responsible party,” see the Instructions for Form SS-4.
provided. Also enter your name and EIN on the top of
page 2. Don't use your social security number (SSN) or             Check the Box for the Quarter
individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN). Generally,       Under “Report for this Quarter of 2025” at the top of Form
enter the business (legal) name you used when you                  941, check the appropriate box of the quarter for which
applied for your EIN. For example, if you’re a sole                you’re filing. Make sure the quarter checked is the same
proprietor, enter “Haleigh Smith” on the “Name” line and           as shown on any attached Schedule B (Form 941), Report
“Haleigh's Cycles” on the “Trade name” line. Leave the             of Tax Liability for Semiweekly Schedule Depositors, and,
“Trade name” line blank if it is the same as your “Name.”          if applicable, Schedule R (Form 941).
   If you use a tax preparer to fill out Form 941, make sure       Completing and Filing Form 941
the preparer shows your business name exactly as it
                                                                   Make entries on Form 941 as follows to enable accurate
appeared when you applied for your EIN.
                                                                   scanning and processing.
Employer identification number (EIN). To make sure                 • Use 10-point Courier font (if possible) for all entries if
businesses comply with federal tax laws, the IRS monitors          you’re typing or using a computer to complete your form.
tax filings and payments by using a numerical system to            Portable Document Format (PDF) forms on IRS.gov have
identify taxpayers. A unique nine-digit EIN is assigned to         fillable fields with acceptable font specifications.
all corporations, partnerships, and some sole proprietors.         • Don't enter dollar signs and decimal points. Commas
Businesses needing an EIN must apply for a number and              are optional. Enter dollars to the left of the preprinted
use it throughout the life of the business on all tax returns,     decimal point and cents to the right of it. Don’t round
payments, and reports.                                             entries to whole dollars. Always show an amount for cents,
    Your business should have only one EIN. If you have            even if it is zero.
more than one and aren't sure which one to use, write to           • Leave blank any data field (except lines 1, 2, and 12)
the IRS office where you file your returns (using the              with a value of zero.
Without a payment address under Where Should You File,             • Enter negative amounts using a minus sign (if possible).
later) or call the IRS at 800-829-4933.                            Otherwise, use parentheses.
    If you don't have an EIN, you may apply for one online
                                                                   • Enter your name and EIN on all pages.
by going to IRS.gov/EIN. You may also apply for an EIN by
                                                                   • Enter your name, EIN, “Form 941,” and the tax year and
                                                                   quarter on all attachments.
faxing or mailing Form SS-4 to the IRS. If the principal
business was created or organized outside of the United
                                                                   • Staple multiple sheets in the upper left corner when
                                                                   filing.
States or U.S. territories, you may also apply for an EIN by
calling 267-941-1099 (toll call). If you haven't received          Complete both pages. You must complete both pages
your EIN by the due date of Form 941, file a paper return          of Form 941 and sign on page 2. Failure to do so may
and write “Applied For” and the date you applied in this           delay processing of your return.
entry space.
                                                                   Required Notice to Employees About the Earned
        If you’re filing your tax return electronically, a valid
                                                                   Income Credit (EIC)
    !   EIN is required at the time the return is filed. If a
CAUTION valid EIN isn't provided, the return won't be              To notify employees about the EIC, you must give the
accepted. This may result in penalties.                            employees, except for employees in American Samoa,
                                                                   Guam, Puerto Rico, the CNMI, and the USVI, one of the
        Always be sure the EIN on the form you file exactly        following items.
 TIP matches the EIN the IRS assigned to your                      • Form W-2 which has the required information about the
         business. Don't use your SSN or ITIN on forms             EIC on the back of Copy B.
that ask for an EIN. If you used an EIN (including a prior         • A substitute Form W-2 with the same EIC information
owner's EIN) on Form 941 that is different from the EIN            on the back of the employee's copy that is on Copy B of
reported on Form W-3, see Box h—Other EIN used this                the IRS Form W-2.
year in the General Instructions for Forms W-2 and W-3.

6                                                                                      Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
• Notice 797, Possible Federal Tax Refund Due to the
Earned Income Credit (EIC).                                            No legal residence or principal     Internal        Internal
                                                                       place of business in any state,     Revenue         Revenue
• Your written statement with the same wording as                      including employers in American     Service         Service
Notice 797.                                                            Samoa, Guam, the CNMI, the          P.O. Box        P.O. Box 932100
  For more information, see section 10 of Pub. 15, Pub.                USVI, and Puerto Rico               409101          Louisville, KY
                                                                                                           Ogden, UT       40293-2100
596, and IRS.gov/EIC.
                                                                                                           84409
Reconciling Forms 941 With Form W-3                                    Special filing address for          Department of   Internal
The IRS matches amounts reported on your four quarterly                exempt organizations; federal,      the Treasury    Revenue
Forms 941 with Form W-2 amounts totaled on your yearly                 state, and local governmental       Internal        Service
Form W-3, Transmittal of Wage and Tax Statements. If the               entities; and Indian tribal         Revenue         P.O. Box 932100
amounts don't agree, you may be contacted by the IRS or                governmental entities, regardless   Service         Louisville, KY
                                                                       of location                         Ogden, UT       40293-2100
the Social Security Administration (SSA). The following
                                                                                                           84201-0005
amounts are reconciled.
• Federal income tax withholding.                                               Your filing address may have changed from that
• Social security wages.                                                        used to file your employment tax return in prior
• Social security tips.                                                  !
                                                                        CAUTION years. Don't send Form 941 or any payments to
• Medicare wages and tips.                                             the SSA.
   For more information, see section 12 of Pub. 15 and the
Instructions for Schedule D (Form 941).                                Depositing Your Taxes
Where Should You File?                                                          You must deposit all depository taxes
                                                                         !      electronically by EFT. For more information, see
You’re encouraged to file Form 941 electronically. Go to                CAUTION Federal tax deposits must be made by electronic

IRS.gov/EmploymentEfile for more information on                        funds transfer (EFT) under Reminders, earlier.
electronic filing. If you file a paper return, where you file
depends on whether you include a payment with Form                     Must You Deposit Your Taxes?
941. Mail your return to the address listed for your location
in the table that follows.                                             You may have to deposit the federal income taxes you
                                                                       withheld and both the employer and employee social
    PDSs can't deliver to P.O. boxes. You must use the                 security taxes and Medicare taxes.
USPS to mail an item to a P.O. box address. Go to                      • If your total taxes after adjustments and
IRS.gov/PDS for the current list of PDSs. For the IRS                  nonrefundable credits (line 12) are less than $2,500
mailing address to use if you’re using a PDS, go to                    for the current quarter or the prior quarter, and you
IRS.gov/PDSstreetAddresses. Select the mailing address                 didn't incur a $100,000 next-day deposit obligation
listed on the webpage that is in the same state as the                 during the current quarter. You don't have to make a
address to which you would mail returns filed without a                deposit. To avoid a penalty, you must pay any amount due
payment, as shown next.                                                in full with a timely filed return or you must deposit any
Mailing Addresses for Form 941                                         amount you owe by the due date of the return. For more
                                                                       information on paying with a timely filed return, see the
If you’re in . . .                   Without a       With a            instructions for line 14, later. If you’re not sure your total
                                     payment . . .   payment . . .     tax liability for the current quarter will be less than $2,500
                                                                       (and your liability for the prior quarter wasn't less than
Connecticut, Delaware, District of   Department of Internal
Columbia, Georgia, Illinois,         the Treasury  Revenue
                                                                       $2,500), make deposits using the semiweekly or monthly
Indiana, Kentucky, Maine,            Internal      Service             rules so you won't be subject to failure-to-deposit (FTD)
Maryland, Massachusetts,             Revenue       P.O. Box 806532     penalties.
Michigan, New Hampshire, New         Service       Cincinnati, OH      • If your total taxes after adjustments and
Jersey, New York, North Carolina,    Kansas City,  45280-6532          nonrefundable credits (line 12) are $2,500 or more
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode            MO 64999-0005                     for the current quarter and the prior quarter. You must
Island, South Carolina,                                                make deposits according to your deposit schedule. See
Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia,
                                                                       section 11 of Pub. 15 for information about payments
West Virginia, Wisconsin
                                                                       made under the accuracy of deposits rule and for rules
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,            Department of   Internal          about federal tax deposits.
Arkansas, California, Colorado,      the Treasury    Revenue
Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa,        Internal        Service           When Must You Deposit Your Taxes?
Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota,        Revenue         P.O. Box 932100   Determine if You’re a Monthly or Semiweekly
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana,      Service         Louisville, KY
Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,        Ogden, UT       40293-2100        Schedule Depositor for the Quarter
North Dakota, Oklahoma,              84201-0005
Oregon, South Dakota, Texas,                                           The IRS uses two different sets of deposit rules to
Utah, Washington, Wyoming                                              determine when businesses must deposit their social
                                                                       security, Medicare, and withheld federal income taxes.
                                                                       These schedules tell you when a deposit is due after you
                                                                       have a payday.

Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                                  7
   Your deposit schedule isn't determined by how often           to any amount of trust fund taxes an employer holds back
you pay your employees. Your deposit schedule depends            in anticipation of any credits they are entitled to.
on the total tax liability you reported on Form 941 during
the previous 4-quarter lookback period (July 1 of the            Adjustment of Tax on Tips
second preceding calendar year through June 30 of the
preceding calendar year). See section 11 of Pub. 15 for          If, by the 10th of the month after the month you received
details. If you filed Form 944 in either 2023 or 2024, your      an employee's report on tips, you don't have enough
lookback period is the 2023 calendar year.                       employee funds available to withhold the employee share
                                                                 of social security and Medicare taxes, you no longer have
   Before the beginning of each calendar year, determine         to collect it. Report the entire amount of these tips on
which type of deposit schedule you must use.                     line 5b (Taxable social security tips), line 5c (Taxable
• If you reported $50,000 or less in taxes during the            Medicare wages and tips), and, if the withholding
lookback period, you’re a monthly schedule depositor.            threshold is met, line 5d (Taxable wages and tips subject
• If you reported more than $50,000 of taxes during the          to Additional Medicare Tax withholding). Include as a
lookback period, you’re a semiweekly schedule                    negative adjustment on line 9 the total uncollected
depositor.                                                       employee share of the social security and Medicare taxes.
         If you’re a monthly schedule depositor and
    !    accumulate a $100,000 tax liability on any day
 CAUTION during the deposit period, you become a
                                                                 Specific Instructions:
semiweekly schedule depositor on the next day and                Part 1: Answer These Questions for
remain so for at least the rest of the calendar year and for
the following calendar year. See $100,000 Next-Day               This Quarter
Deposit Rule in section 11 of Pub. 15 for more information.
The $100,000 tax liability threshold requiring a next-day        1. Number of Employees Who Received Wages,
deposit is determined before you consider any reduction          Tips, or Other Compensation
of your liability for nonrefundable credits.                     Enter the number of employees on your payroll for the pay
                                                                 period including March 12, June 12, September 12, or
What About Penalties and Interest?                               December 12, for the quarter indicated at the top of Form
                                                                 941. Don't include:
Avoiding Penalties and Interest                                  • Household employees,
You can avoid paying penalties and interest if you do all of     • Employees in nonpay status for the pay period,
the following.                                                   • Farm employees,
• Deposit or pay your taxes when they are due.                   • Pensioners, or
• File your fully completed Form 941 on time.                    • Active members of the U.S. Armed Forces.
• Report your tax liability accurately.                                  Employers in American Samoa, Guam, the CNMI,
• Submit valid checks for tax payments.                           TIP the USVI, and Puerto Rico can skip lines 2 and 3,
• Furnish accurate Forms W-2 to employees.                               unless you have employees who are subject to
• File Form W-3 and Copy A of Forms W-2 with the SSA             U.S. income tax withholding.
on time and accurately.
  Penalties and interest are charged on taxes paid late          2. Wages, Tips, and Other Compensation
and returns filed late at a rate set by law. See sections 11     Enter amounts on line 2 that would also be included in
and 12 of Pub. 15 for details.                                   box 1 of your employees' Forms W-2. See Box 1—Wages,
                                                                 tips, other compensation in the General Instructions for
  Use Form 843 to request abatement of assessed                  Forms W-2 and W-3 for details. Include sick pay paid by
penalties or interest. Don't request abatement of assessed       your agent. Also include sick pay paid by a third party that
penalties or interest on Form 941 or 941-X.                      isn't your agent (for example, an insurance company) if
   If you receive a notice about a penalty after you file this   you were given timely notice of the payments and the third
return, reply to the notice with an explanation and we will      party transferred liability for the employer's taxes to you.
determine if you meet reasonable-cause criteria. Don't              If you’re a third-party payer of sick pay and not an agent
attach an explanation when you file your return.                 of the employer, don't include sick pay that you paid to
          If federal income, social security, and Medicare       policyholders' employees here if you gave the
          taxes that must be withheld (that is, trust fund       policyholders timely notice of the payments. See section 6
    !
 CAUTION taxes) aren't withheld or aren't deposited or paid      of Pub. 15-A for more information about sick pay reporting
to the United States Treasury, the trust fund recovery           and the procedures for transferring the liability to the
penalty may apply. The penalty is 100% of the unpaid trust       employer.
fund tax. If these unpaid taxes can't be immediately
collected from the employer or business, the trust fund          3. Federal Income Tax Withheld From Wages,
recovery penalty may be imposed on all persons who are           Tips, and Other Compensation
determined by the IRS to be responsible for collecting,          Enter the federal income tax you withheld (or were
accounting for, or paying over these taxes, and who acted        required to withhold) from your employees on this
willfully in not doing so. For more information, see section     quarter's wages, tips, taxable fringe benefits, and
11 of Pub. 15. The trust fund recovery penalty won't apply       supplemental unemployment compensation benefits.

8                                                                                     Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
Don't include any income tax withheld by a third-party            total of the tips and taxable wages, including wages
payer of sick pay even if you reported it on Forms W-2.           reported on line 5a, for an employee reaches $176,100 for
You will reconcile this difference on Form W-3. Also              the year. Include all tips your employee reported to you
include here any excise taxes you were required to                even if you were unable to withhold the employee tax of
withhold on golden parachute payments (section 4999).             6.2%. You will reduce your total taxes by the amount of
For information on the employment tax treatment of fringe         any uncollected employee share of social security and
benefits, see Pub. 15-B, Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe           Medicare taxes on tips later on line 9; see Current
Benefits. For information about supplemental                      quarter's adjustments for tips and group-term life
unemployment compensation benefits and golden                     insurance, later. Don’t include service charges on line 5b.
parachute payments, see section 5 of Pub. 15-A.                   For details about the difference between tips and service
                                                                  charges, see Rev. Rul. 2012-18, 2012-26 I.R.B. 1032,
   If you’re a third-party payer of sick pay, enter the federal   available at IRS.gov/irb/2012-26_IRB#RR-2012-18.
income tax you withheld (or were required to withhold) on
third-party sick pay here.                                           Your employee must report cash tips to you by the 10th
                                                                  day of the month after the month the tips are received.
4. If No Wages, Tips, and Other Compensation                      Cash tips include tips paid by cash, check, debit card, and
Are Subject to Social Security or Medicare                        credit card. The report should include charged tips (for
                                                                  example, credit and debit card charges) you paid over to
Tax . . .                                                         the employee for charge customers, tips the employee
If no wages, tips, and other compensation on line 2 are           received directly from customers, and tips received from
subject to social security or Medicare tax, check the box         other employees under any tip-sharing arrangement. Both
on line 4. If this question doesn't apply to you, leave the       directly and indirectly tipped employees must report tips to
box blank. For more information about exempt wages, see           you. No report is required for months when tips are less
section 15 of Pub. 15. For religious exemptions, see              than $20. Employees may submit a written statement or
section 4 of Pub. 15-A.                                           electronic tip record.
        If you’re a governmental employer, wages you pay             Don't include allocated tips (described in section 6 of
  !     aren't automatically exempt from social security          Pub. 15) on this line. Instead, report them on Form 8027.
CAUTION and Medicare taxes. Your employees may be                 Allocated tips aren't reportable on Form 941 and aren't
covered by law or by a voluntary Section 218 Agreement            subject to withholding of federal income, social security, or
with the SSA. For more information, see Pub. 963,                 Medicare tax.
Federal-State Reference Guide.
                                                                                          line 5b (column 1)
                                                                                     x      0.124
5a–5e. Taxable Social Security and Medicare
                                                                                          line 5b (column 2)
Wages and Tips
5a. Taxable social security wages. Enter the total
wages, sick pay, and taxable fringe benefits subject to           5c. Taxable Medicare wages & tips. Enter all wages,
social security taxes you paid to your employees during           tips, sick pay, and taxable fringe benefits that are subject
the quarter. For this purpose, sick pay includes payments         to Medicare tax. Unlike social security wages, there is no
made by an insurance company to your employees for                limit on the amount of wages subject to Medicare tax.
which you received timely notice from the insurance                  The rate of Medicare tax is 1.45% (0.0145) each for the
company. See section 6 of Pub. 15-A for more information          employer and employee. Include all tips your employees
about sick pay reporting. See the instructions for line 8,        reported during the quarter, even if you were unable to
later, for an adjustment that you may need to make on             withhold the employee tax of 1.45%.
Form 941 for sick pay.
   Enter the amount before payroll deductions. Don't                                      line 5c (column 1)
include tips on this line. For information on types of wages                         x      0.029
subject to social security taxes, see section 5 of Pub. 15.                               line 5c (column 2)
   For 2025, the rate of social security tax on taxable
wages is 6.2% (0.062) each for the employer and
                                                                    For more information on tips, see section 6 of Pub. 15.
employee. Stop paying social security tax on and entering
                                                                  See the instructions for line 8, later, for an adjustment that
an employee's wages on line 5a when the employee's
                                                                  you may need to make on Form 941 for sick pay.
taxable wages and tips reach $176,100 for the year.
However, continue to withhold income and Medicare taxes           5d. Taxable wages & tips subject to Additional Medi-
for the whole year on all wages and tips, even when the           care Tax withholding. Enter all wages, tips, sick pay,
social security wage base of $176,100 has been reached.           and taxable fringe benefits that are subject to Additional
                                                                  Medicare Tax withholding. You’re required to begin
                        line 5a (column 1)                        withholding Additional Medicare Tax in the pay period in
                    x     0.124                                   which you pay wages in excess of $200,000 to an
                        line 5a (column 2)                        employee and continue to withhold it each pay period until
                                                                  the end of the calendar year. Additional Medicare Tax is
                                                                  only imposed on the employee. There is no employer
5b. Taxable social security tips. Enter all tips your             share of Additional Medicare Tax. All wages that are
employees reported to you during the quarter until the

Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                        9
subject to Medicare tax are subject to Additional Medicare       accuracy of our scanning software. For example, enter
Tax withholding if paid in excess of the $200,000                “-10.59” instead of “(10.59).” However, if your software
withholding threshold.                                           only allows for parentheses in entering negative amounts,
   For more information on what wages are subject to             you may use them.
Medicare tax, see section 15 of Pub. 15. For more                Current quarter's adjustments. In certain cases, you
information on Additional Medicare Tax, go to IRS.gov/           must adjust the amounts you entered as social security
ADMTfaqs. See the instructions for line 8, later, for an         and Medicare taxes in column 2 of lines 5a–5d to figure
adjustment that you may need to make on Form 941 for             your correct tax liability for this quarter's Form 941. See
sick pay.                                                        section 13 of Pub. 15.
   Once wages and tips exceed the $200,000 withholding              7. Current quarter's adjustment for fractions of
threshold, include all tips your employees reported during       cents. Enter adjustments for fractions of cents (due to
the quarter, even if you were unable to withhold the             rounding) relating to the employee share of social security
employee tax of 0.9%.                                            and Medicare taxes withheld. The employee share of
                                                                 amounts shown in column 2 of lines 5a–5d may differ
                        line 5d (column 1)                       slightly from amounts actually withheld from employees'
                   x      0.009                                  pay due to the rounding of social security and Medicare
                        line 5d (column 2)                       taxes based on statutory rates. This adjustment may be a
                                                                 positive or a negative adjustment.
                                                                    8. Current quarter's adjustment for sick pay. If your
5e. Total social security and Medicare taxes. Add the            third-party payer of sick pay that isn't your agent (for
column 2 amounts on lines 5a–5d. Enter the result on             example, an insurance company) transfers the liability for
line 5e.                                                         the employer share of the social security and Medicare
                                                                 taxes to you, enter a negative adjustment on line 8 for the
5f. Section 3121(q) Notice and Demand—Tax                        employee share of social security and Medicare taxes that
Due on Unreported Tips                                           were withheld and deposited by your third-party sick pay
Enter the tax due from your Section 3121(q) Notice and           payer on the sick pay. If you’re the third-party sick pay
Demand on line 5f. The IRS issues a Section 3121(q)              payer and you transferred the liability for the employer
Notice and Demand to advise an employer of the amount            share of the social security and Medicare taxes to the
of tips received by employees who failed to report or            employer, enter a negative adjustment on line 8 for any
underreported tips to the employer. An employer isn't            employer share of these taxes required to be paid by the
liable for the employer share of the social security and         employer. The sick pay should be included on line 5a,
Medicare taxes on unreported tips until notice and               line 5c, and, if the withholding threshold is met, line 5d.
demand for the taxes is made to the employer by the IRS              No adjustment is reported on line 8 for sick pay that is
in a Section 3121(q) Notice and Demand. The tax due              paid through a third party as an employer’s agent. An
may have been determined from tips reported to the IRS           employer’s agent bears no insurance risk and is
on employees' Forms 4137, Social Security and Medicare           reimbursed on a cost-plus-fee basis for payment of sick
Tax on Unreported Tip Income, or other tips that weren't         pay and similar amounts. If an employer uses an agent to
reported to their employer as determined by the IRS              pay sick pay, the employer reports the wages on line 5a,
during an examination. For additional information, see           line 5c, and, if the withholding threshold is met, line 5d,
Rev. Rul. 2012-18.                                               unless the employer has an agency agreement with the
   Deposit the tax within the time period required under         third-party payer that requires the third-party payer to do
your deposit schedule to avoid any possible deposit              the collecting, reporting, and/or paying or depositing
penalty. The tax is treated as accumulated by the                employment taxes on the sick pay. See section 6 of Pub.
employer on the “Date of Notice and Demand” as printed           15-A for more information about sick pay reporting.
on the Section 3121(q) Notice and Demand. The                       9. Current quarter's adjustments for tips and
employer must include this amount on the appropriate line        group-term life insurance. Enter a negative adjustment
of the record of federal tax liability (Part 2 of Form 941 for   for:
a monthly schedule depositor or Schedule B (Form 941)            • Any uncollected employee share of social security and
for a semiweekly schedule depositor).                            Medicare taxes on tips, and
                                                                 • The uncollected employee share of social security and
6. Total Taxes Before Adjustments                                Medicare taxes on group-term life insurance premiums
Add the total federal income tax withheld from wages, tips,      paid for former employees.
and other compensation (line 3); the total social security           See the General Instructions for Forms W-2 and W-3
and Medicare taxes before adjustments (line 5e); and any         for information on how to report the uncollected employee
tax due under a Section 3121(q) Notice and Demand                share of social security and Medicare taxes on tips and
(line 5f). Enter the result on line 6.                           group-term life insurance on Form W-2.

7–9. Tax Adjustments                                             Prior quarter's adjustments. If you need to correct any
                                                                 adjustment reported on a previously filed Form 941,
Enter tax amounts on lines 7–9 that result from current          complete and file Form 941-X. Form 941-X is an adjusted
quarter adjustments. Use a minus sign (if possible) to           return or claim for refund and is filed separately from Form
show an adjustment that decreases the total taxes shown          941. See section 13 of Pub. 15.
on line 6 instead of parentheses. Doing so enhances the

10                                                                                   Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
10. Total Taxes After Adjustments                               current quarter or prior quarter are less than $2,500, and
Combine the amounts shown on lines 6–9 and enter the            you didn't incur a $100,000 next-day deposit obligation
result on line 10.                                              during the current quarter. However, see section 11 of
                                                                Pub. 15 for information about payments made under the
11. Qualified Small Business Payroll Tax Credit                 accuracy of deposits rule.
for Increasing Research Activities                                 If you were required to make federal tax deposits, pay
Enter the amount of the credit from Form 8974, line 12 or,      the amount shown on line 14 by EFT. If you weren't
if applicable, line 17.                                         required to make federal tax deposits (see Must You
                                                                Deposit Your Taxes, earlier) or you're a monthly schedule
          If you enter an amount on line 11, you must attach
                                                                depositor making a payment under the accuracy of
  !       Form 8974.
                                                                deposits rule, you may pay the amount shown on line 14
                                                                by EFT, credit card, debit card, check, money order, or
CAUTION



12. Total Taxes After Adjustments and                           EFW. For more information on electronic payment options,
                                                                go to IRS.gov/Payments.
Nonrefundable Credits
Subtract line 11 from line 10 and enter the result on              If you pay by EFT, credit card, or debit card, file your
line 12. The amount entered on line 12 can’t be less than       return using the Without a payment address under Where
zero.                                                           Should You File, earlier, and don't file Form 941-V,
                                                                Payment Voucher.
• If line 12 is less than $2,500 or line 12 on the prior
quarterly return was less than $2,500, and you didn't              If you pay by check or money order, make it payable to
incur a $100,000 next-day deposit obligation during             “United States Treasury.” Enter your EIN, “Form 941,” and
the current quarter. You may pay the amount with Form           the tax period (“1st Quarter 2025,” “2nd Quarter 2025,”
941 or you may deposit the amount. To avoid a penalty,          “3rd Quarter 2025,” or “4th Quarter 2025”) on your check
you must pay any amount you owe in full with a timely filed     or money order. Complete Form 941-V and enclose it with
return or you must deposit any amount you owe before the        Form 941.
due date of the return. For more information on paying            If line 12 is $2,500 or more on both your prior and
with a timely filed return, see the instructions for line 14,   current quarter Forms 941, and you’ve deposited all taxes
later.                                                          when due, the balance due on line 14 should be zero.
• If line 12 is $2,500 or more and line 12 on the prior                  If you’re required to make deposits and instead
quarterly return was $2,500 or more, or if you
                                                                  !      pay the taxes with Form 941, you may be subject
incurred a $100,000 next-day deposit obligation
                                                                CAUTION to a penalty. See Must You Deposit Your Taxes,
during the current quarter. You must make required
                                                                earlier.
deposits according to your deposit schedule. The amount
shown on line 12 must equal the “Total liability for quarter”     What if you can't pay in full? If you can't pay the full
shown on line 16 or the “Total liability for the quarter”       amount of tax you owe, you can apply for an installment
shown on Schedule B (Form 941). For more information,           agreement online. You can apply for an installment
see the line 16 instructions, later.                            agreement online if:
  For more information and rules about federal tax
                                                                • You can't pay the full amount shown on line 14,
deposits, see Depositing Your Taxes, earlier, and section
                                                                • The total amount you owe is $25,000 or less, and
11 of Pub. 15.
                                                                • You can pay the liability in full in 24 months.
                                                                   To apply using the Online Payment Agreement
         If you’re a semiweekly schedule depositor, you         Application, go to IRS.gov/OPA.
  !      must complete Schedule B (Form 941). If you fail
 CAUTION to complete and submit Schedule B (Form 941),
                                                                   Under an installment agreement, you can pay what you
                                                                owe in monthly installments. There are certain conditions
the IRS may assess deposit penalties based on available
                                                                you must meet to enter into and maintain an installment
information.
                                                                agreement, such as paying the liability within 24 months,
                                                                and making all required deposits and timely filing tax
13. Total Deposits for This Quarter                             returns during the length of the agreement.
Enter your deposits for this quarter, including any                If your installment agreement is accepted, you will be
overpayment from a prior quarter that you applied to this       charged a fee and you will be subject to penalties and
return. Also include in the amount shown any                    interest on the amount of tax not paid by the due date of
overpayment that you applied from filing Form 941-X,            the return.
941-X (PR), or 944-X in the current quarter.
                                                                15. Overpayment
14. Balance Due
                                                                If line 13 is more than line 12, enter the difference on
If line 12 is more than line 13, enter the difference on        line 15.
line 14. Otherwise, see the instructions for line 15, later.
                                                                  Never make an entry on both lines 14 and 15.
  Never make an entry on both lines 14 and 15.
                                                                  If you deposited more than the correct amount for the
  You don't have to pay if line 14 is under $1. Generally,      quarter, you can choose to have the IRS either refund the
you should have a balance due only if your total taxes after    overpayment or apply it to your next return. Check only
adjustments and nonrefundable credits (line 12) for the         one box on line 15. If you don't check either box or if you

Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                    11
check both boxes, we will generally apply the                    instead of on Schedule B (Form 941), you may be
overpayment to your next return. Regardless of any boxes         assessed an “averaged” FTD penalty. See Deposit
you check or don't check on line 15, we may apply your           Penalties in section 11 of Pub. 15 for more information.
overpayment to any past due tax account that is shown in
                                                                   Reporting adjustments from lines 7–9 on line 16. If
our records under your EIN.
                                                                 your net adjustment during a month is negative and it
  If line 15 is under $1, we will send a refund or apply it to   exceeds your total tax liability for the month, don't enter a
your next return only if you ask us in writing to do so.         negative amount for the month. Instead, enter "-0-" for the
                                                                 month and carry over the unused portion of the
Part 2: Tell Us About Your Deposit                               adjustment to the next month.
Schedule and Tax Liability for This                              Semiweekly schedule depositor. If you reported more
                                                                 than $50,000 of taxes for the lookback period, you’re a
Quarter                                                          semiweekly schedule depositor. Check the third box on
                                                                 line 16.
16. Tax Liability for the Quarter
                                                                     You must complete Schedule B (Form 941) and submit
Check one of the boxes on line 16. Follow the instructions       it with your Form 941. Don't file Schedule B (Form 941)
for each box to determine if you need to enter your              with your Form 941 if you’re a monthly schedule depositor.
monthly tax liability on Form 941 or your daily tax liability
on Schedule B (Form 941).                                            Don't change your tax liability on Schedule B (Form
                                                                 941) by adjustments reported on any Forms 941-X.
De minimis exception. If line 12 is less than $2,500 or
line 12 on the prior quarterly return was less than $2,500,      Adjusting tax liability for the qualified small business
and you didn't incur a $100,000 next-day deposit                 payroll tax credit for increasing research activities
obligation during the current quarter, check the first box on    (line 11). Monthly schedule depositors and semiweekly
line 16 and go to Part 3.                                        schedule depositors must account for the qualified small
                                                                 business payroll tax credit for increasing research
        If you meet the de minimis exception based on the        activities (line 11) when reporting their tax liabilities on
     !  prior quarter and line 12 for the current quarter is     line 16 or Schedule B (Form 941). The total tax liability for
CAUTION $100,000 or more, you must provide a record of
                                                                 the quarter must equal the amount reported on line 12.
your federal tax liability. If you’re a monthly schedule         Failure to account for the qualified small business payroll
depositor, complete the deposit schedule on line 16. If          tax credit for increasing research activities on line 16 or
you’re a semiweekly schedule depositor, attach                   Schedule B (Form 941) may cause line 16 or Schedule B
Schedule B (Form 941).                                           (Form 941) to report more than the total tax liability
                                                                 reported on line 12. Don't reduce your monthly tax liability
Monthly schedule depositor. If you reported $50,000 or           reported on line 16 or your daily tax liability reported on
less in taxes during the lookback period, you’re a monthly       Schedule B (Form 941) below zero.
schedule depositor unless the $100,000 Next-Day
Deposit Rule discussed in section 11 of Pub. 15 applies.             Beginning with the first quarter of 2023, the qualified
Check the second box on line 16 and enter your tax               small business payroll tax credit for increasing research
liability for each month in the quarter. Enter your tax          activities is first used to reduce the employer share of
liabilities in the month that corresponds to the dates you       social security tax (up to $250,000) for the quarter and any
paid wages to your employees, not the date payroll               remaining credit is then used to reduce the employer
liabilities were accrued or deposits were made. Add the          share of Medicare tax for the quarter until it reaches zero.
amounts for each month. Enter the result in the “Total           In completing line 16 or Schedule B (Form 941), you take
liability for quarter” box.                                      into account the payroll tax credit against the liability for
                                                                 the employer share of social security tax starting with the
   Note that your total tax liability for the quarter must       first payroll payment of the quarter that includes payments
equal your total taxes shown on line 12. If it doesn't, your     of wages subject to social security tax to your employees
tax deposits and payments may not be counted as timely.          until you use up to $250,000 of credit against the
Don't change your tax liability on line 16 by adjustments        employer share of social security tax and you then take
reported on any Forms 941-X.                                     into account any remaining payroll tax credit against the
   You’re a monthly schedule depositor for the calendar          liability for the employer share of Medicare tax starting
year if the amount of your Form 941 taxes reported for the       with the first payroll payment of the quarter that includes
lookback period is $50,000 or less. The lookback period is       payments of wages subject to Medicare tax to employees.
the 4 consecutive quarters ending on June 30 of the prior        Consistent with the entries on line 16 or Schedule B (Form
year. For 2025, the lookback period begins July 1, 2023,         941), the payroll tax credit should be taken into account in
and ends June 30, 2024. For details on the deposit rules,        making deposits of employment tax. If any payroll tax
see section 11 of Pub. 15. If you filed Form 944 in either       credit is remaining at the end of the quarter that hasn’t
2023 or 2024, your lookback period is the 2023 calendar          been used completely because it exceeds $250,000 of
year.                                                            the employer share of social security tax and the employer
         The amounts entered on line 16 are a summary of         share of Medicare tax for the quarter, the excess credit
         your monthly tax liability, not a summary of            may be carried forward to the succeeding quarter and
     !
CAUTION deposits you made. If you don't properly report
                                                                 allowed as a payroll tax credit for the succeeding quarter.
your liabilities when required or if you’re a semiweekly         The payroll tax credit may not be taken as a credit against
schedule depositor and enter your liabilities on line 16         income tax withholding, the employee share of social

12                                                                                    Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
security tax, or the employee share of Medicare tax. Also,        18. If You’re a Seasonal Employer . . .
the remaining payroll tax credit may not be carried back          If you hire employees seasonally—such as for summer or
and taken as a credit against wages paid from preceding           winter only—check the box on line 18. Checking the box
quarters.                                                         tells the IRS not to expect four Forms 941 from you
    Example. Rose Co. is an employer with a calendar tax          throughout the year because you haven't paid wages
year that filed its timely 2024 income tax return on April        regularly.
15, 2025. Rose Co. elected to take the qualified small
business payroll tax credit for increasing research                 Generally, we won't ask about unfiled returns if at least
activities on Form 6765. The third quarter of 2025 is the         one taxable return is filed each year. However, you must
first quarter that begins after Rose Co. filed the income tax     check the box on line 18 on every Form 941 you file.
return making the payroll tax credit election. Therefore, the     Otherwise, the IRS will expect a return to be filed for each
payroll tax credit applies against Rose Co.'s share of            quarter.
social security tax (up to $250,000) and Medicare tax on
wages paid to employees in the third quarter of 2025.                Also, when you complete Form 941, be sure to check
Rose Co. is a semiweekly schedule depositor. Rose Co.             the box on the top of the form that corresponds to the
completes Schedule B (Form 941) by reducing the                   quarter reported.
amount of liability entered for the first payroll payment in      Part 4: May We Speak With Your
the third quarter of 2025 that includes wages subject to
social security tax by the lesser of (1) its share of social      Third-Party Designee?
security tax (up to $250,000) on the wages, or (2) the
available payroll tax credit. If the payroll tax credit elected   If you want to allow an employee, a paid tax preparer, or
is more than Rose Co.'s share of social security tax on the       another person to discuss your Form 941 with the IRS,
first payroll payment of the quarter, the excess payroll tax      check the “Yes” box in Part 4. Enter the name, phone
credit would be carried forward to succeeding payroll             number, and five-digit personal identification number
payments in the third quarter until it is used against up to      (PIN) of the specific person to speak with—not the name
$250,000 of Rose Co.'s share of social security tax for the       of the firm that prepared your tax return. The designee
quarter. If the amount of the payroll tax credit exceeds          may choose any five numbers as their PIN.
Rose Co.'s share of social security tax (up to $250,000) on         By checking “Yes,” you authorize the IRS to talk to the
wages paid to its employees in the third quarter, any             person you named (your designee) about any questions
remaining credit is used against Rose Co.'s share of              we may have while we process your return. You also
Medicare tax on the first payroll payment of the quarter          authorize your designee to do all of the following.
and then the excess payroll tax credit would be carried           • Give us any information that is missing from your return.
forward to succeeding payroll payments in the third               • Call us for information about processing your return.
quarter until it is used against Rose Co.'s share of              • Respond to certain IRS notices that you’ve shared with
Medicare tax for the quarter. If Rose Co. still has credit        your designee about math errors and return preparation.
remaining after reducing its share of social security tax (up     The IRS won't send notices to your designee.
to $250,000) and Medicare tax for the third quarter, the
remainder would be treated as a payroll tax credit against           You’re not authorizing your designee to bind you to
its share of social security tax (up to $250,000) and             anything (including additional tax liability) or to otherwise
Medicare tax on wages paid in the fourth quarter. If the          represent you before the IRS. If you want to expand your
amount of the payroll tax credit remaining exceeded Rose          designee's authorization, see Pub. 947.
Co.'s share of social security tax (up to $250,000) and
Medicare tax on wages paid in the fourth quarter, it could           The authorization will automatically expire 1 year from
be carried forward and treated as a payroll tax credit for        the due date (without regard to extensions) for filing your
the first quarter of 2026.                                        Form 941. If you or your designee wants to terminate the
                                                                  authorization, write to the IRS office for your location using
Part 3: Tell Us About Your Business                               the Without a payment address under Where Should You
                                                                  File, earlier.
In Part 3, answer only those questions that apply to your
business. If the questions don't apply, leave them blank          Part 5: Sign Here (Approved Roles)
and go to Part 4.
                                                                  Complete all information and sign Form 941. The following
17. If Your Business Has Closed . . .                             persons are authorized to sign the return for each type of
If you go out of business or stop paying wages, you must          business entity.
file a final return. To tell the IRS that a particular Form 941   • Sole proprietorship—The individual who owns the
is your final return, check the box on line 17 and enter the      business.
final date you paid wages in the space provided. For              • Corporation (including a limited liability company
additional filing requirements, including information about       (LLC) treated as a corporation)—The president, the
attaching a statement to your final return, see If Your           vice president, or another principal officer duly authorized
Business Has Closed, earlier.                                     to sign.
                                                                  • Partnership (including an LLC treated as a
                                                                  partnership) or unincorporated organization—A
                                                                  responsible and duly authorized partner, member, or
                                                                  officer having knowledge of its affairs.

Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                       13
• Single-member LLC treated as a disregarded entity           enter the firm's name and the EIN of the firm. You can
for federal income tax purposes—The owner of the              apply for a PTIN online or by filing Form W-12. For more
LLC or a principal officer duly authorized to sign.           information about applying for a PTIN online, go to
• Trust or estate—The fiduciary.                              IRS.gov/PTIN. You can't use your PTIN in place of the EIN
                                                              of the tax preparation firm.
   Form 941 may be signed by a duly authorized agent of
the taxpayer if a valid power of attorney has been filed.         Generally, don't complete this section if you’re filing the
Alternative signature method. Corporate officers or           return as a reporting agent and have a valid Form 8655 on
duly authorized agents may sign Form 941 by rubber            file with the IRS. However, a reporting agent must
stamp, mechanical device, or computer software program.       complete this section if the reporting agent offered legal
For details and required documentation, see Rev. Proc.        advice, for example, advising the client on determining
2005-39, 2005-28 I.R.B. 82, available at IRS.gov/irb/         whether its workers are employees or independent
2005-28_IRB#RP-2005-39.                                       contractors for federal tax purposes.

Paid Preparer Use Only                                        How To Get Forms, Instructions, and
A paid preparer must sign Form 941 and provide the
information in the Paid Preparer Use Only section of Part 5
                                                              Publications
if the preparer was paid to prepare Form 941 and isn't an             You can view, download, or print most of the
employee of the filing entity. Paid preparers must sign               forms, instructions, and publications you may
paper returns with a manual signature. The preparer must              need at IRS.gov/Forms. Otherwise, you can go to
give you a copy of the return in addition to the copy to be   IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order and have them
filed with the IRS.                                           mailed to you. The IRS will process your order for forms
                                                              and publications as soon as possible. Don't resubmit
   If you’re a paid preparer, enter your Preparer Tax
                                                              requests you've already sent us. You can get forms and
Identification Number (PTIN) in the space provided.
Include your complete address. If you work for a firm,        publications faster online.




14                                                                                 Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)
Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information on these forms to carry out the
Internal Revenue laws of the United States. You’re required to give us the information. We need it to ensure that you’re
complying with these laws and to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax. Section 6011 requires you to
provide the requested information if the tax is applicable to you. Section 6109 requires you to provide your identification
number. You’re not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction
Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be
retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax
returns and return information are confidential, as required by section 6103. However, section 6103 allows or requires the
IRS to disclose or give the information shown on your tax return to others as described in the Code. For example, we may
disclose your tax information to the Department of Justice for civil and criminal litigation, and to cities, states, the District
of Columbia, and U.S. commonwealths and territories for use in administering their tax laws. We may also disclose this
information to other countries under a tax treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce federal nontax criminal laws, or
to federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism.
   Estimates of taxpayer burden. These estimates include forms in the Form 941 series, including attachments; Forms
CT-1, CT-2, SS-8, W-2, W-3, 940, 945, 2032, 2678, 8027, 8027-T, 8453-EMP, 8850, 8879-EMP, 8922, 8952, and 8974,
and their schedules; and all the forms employers attach to employment-related tax returns and related wage statements
to employees.
   The following tables show burden estimates based on current statutory requirements as of December 1, 2024, for
employers filing employment tax reporting forms and wage statement forms. Time spent and out-of-pocket costs are
presented separately. Time burden is the time spent to comply with employer reporting responsibilities, including
recordkeeping, preparing and submitting forms, and preparing and providing wage statements to employees.
Out-of-pocket costs include any expenses incurred to comply with employer reporting responsibilities. The amount of
taxes paid isn’t included in reporting burden.
   The time and money burdens reported below include all associated forms and schedules, across all tax return
preparation methods and employer reporting. They are national averages and don’t necessarily reflect a “typical”
employer’s reporting burden. Most employers experience lower than average burden, with burden varying considerably
by the number of Forms W-2 that an employer files. For instance, the estimated average burden for an employer who
issues four Forms W-2 is 64.4 hours (16.1 hours x 4) and $2,424 ($606 x 4). The estimated average burden for a large
employer who issues 2,000 Forms W-2 is 800 hours (2,000 x 0.4) and $30,000 (2,000 x $15).


Annual Average Burden
            Type of Filer                Total Time (hours)         Recordkeeping Time    Time Spent on W-2     All Other Time   Out-of-Pocket       Total Monetized
                                                                          (hours)          Activities (hours)       (hours)          Costs               Burden*
        Filers with Form 941                       64                       19                     4                    41          $2,743                  $4,866
        Filers with Form 943                       57                       16                     6                    35           $989                   $2,069
        Filers with Form 944                       25                        4                     3                    18           $405                    $681
 *Total monetized burden = monetized hours + out-of-pocket costs.




Annual Average Burden per Employer by Number of Forms W-2 Filed
              Number of Forms W-2 Filed                              Total Time (hours)                    Out-of-Pocket Costs              Total Monetized Burden*
                      All Employers                                         11                                    $426                               $738
                            1 to 5                                         16.1                                   $606                              $1,049
                            6 to 10                                          6                                    $276                               $465
                         11 to 25                                           4.4                                   $196                               $339
                         26 to 50                                           3.5                                   $128                               $241
                         51 to 100                                          2.6                                   $97                                $184
                        101 to 250                                          1.8                                   $87                                $154
                        251 to 500                                          1.2                                   $66                                $113
                       501 to 1,000                                         0.7                                   $47                                $77
                        Over 1,000                                          0.4                                   $15                                $29
 *Total monetized burden = monetized hours + out-of-pocket costs.



Annual Average Burden Per Employee by Primary Form Filed
                   Primary Form Filed                                Total Time (hours)                    Out-of-Pocket Costs              Total Monetized Burden*
                         Form 941                                          10.9                                   $431                               $744
                         Form 943                                          19.2                                   $288                               $601
                         Form 944                                          11.5                                   $207                               $347
 *Total monetized burden = monetized hours + out-of-pocket costs.



Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)                                                                                                                                15
   Comments. If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time estimates or suggestions for making Form
941 simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. You can send us comments from IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can
send your comments to Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications Division, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Don’t send Form 941 to this address. Instead, see Where Should You File, earlier.




16                                                                          Instructions for Form 941 (Rev. 3-2025)

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
