# iw7_3

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:39:42  
**Original File:** iw7_3.pdf

---

## Content

Instructions for Form W-7
(Rev. December 2024)
Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number
(Use with the December 2024 revision of Form W-7)
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless
otherwise noted.
                                                                              Reminders
Contents                                                              Page    Additional Information. For more information, visit IRS.gov/
                                                                              ITIN.
Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
What’s New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1    Publications. See Pubs. 501, 515, 519, and 1915 for more
                                                                              information.
Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
                                                                                  You can visit IRS.gov/Forms to download these publications
General Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2      as well as other forms at no cost. Otherwise, you can go to
    Purpose of Form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2       IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current and prior-year forms and
    Who Is Eligible To Complete This Form . . . . . . . . . 3                 instructions. Your order should be mailed to you within 10
    Supporting Documentation Requirements . . . . . . 3                       business days. You can also call 800-TAX-FORM
                                                                              (800-829-3676) if you’re in the United States to order forms and
    Additional Documentation Requirements . . . . . . . 4                     publications.
    How To Apply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                                                              Telephone help. If, after reading these instructions and our free
    When To Apply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5       publications, you’re not sure how to complete your application or
    Where To Apply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6        have additional questions, call 800-829-1040 if you’re in the
Specific Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6     United States. If you’re outside of the United States, call
                                                                              267-941-1000 (not a toll-free number) for assistance.
    Application Type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
    Reason You’re Submitting Form W-7 . . . . . . . . . . 6                   Change of address. It’s important that the IRS is aware of your
                                                                              current mailing address. This address is used to mail notices
    Line Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8     about your Form W-7, including notification of your assigned
    Signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9   ITIN, and return your original supporting documentation. You
Exceptions Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11      may use the ITIN notice you received or send a letter to the IRS
Medical/School Records Checklist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16               using the address under Where To Apply, later.
                                                                              Renewal applications. All Form W-7 renewal applications must
Future Developments                                                           include a U.S. federal tax return unless you meet an exception to
                                                                              the requirement. See Exceptions Tables, later, for more
For the latest information about developments related to Form                 information.
W-7 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they
                                                                              Information returns. If your ITIN is only being used on
were published, go to IRS.gov/FormW7.
                                                                              information returns for reporting purposes, you don’t need to
                                                                              renew your ITIN at this time. However, in the future, if you need to
What’s New                                                                    use the ITIN to file a U.S. federal tax return, you will need to
                                                                              renew the ITIN at that time.
Estimated tax payments and extensions. We moved ITIN not
needed for Forms 4868, 1040-ES, or 1040-ES (NR) from How To                   Expanded discussion of allowable tax benefit. Spouses and
File to Reminders, made clarifying changes in the text, and                   dependents are not eligible for an ITIN or to renew an ITIN
revised the title to ITIN not needed for estimated tax payments or            unless they are claimed for an allowable tax benefit or they file
extensions.                                                                   their own tax return. See Allowable tax benefit, later, for more
                                                                              information.
Allowable tax benefit. We added qualifying surviving spouse
to the list of allowable tax benefits. Also, we added a TIP                   Expired ITINs. If your ITIN wasn’t included on at least one U.S.
explaining what it takes to demonstrate if a dependent qualifies              federal tax return for the last 3 consecutive tax years, it expires
for an allowable tax benefit. Form W-7 can be submitted for a                 on December 31 of the third consecutive tax year, and must be
dependent claimed for the child and dependent care credit or                  renewed before being used again on a U.S. federal tax return.
credit for other dependents even if the return has no tax to be                  If your ITIN was assigned before 2013 and was never
reduced by those credits. See Allowable tax benefit, later.                   renewed, you'll need to submit a renewal application with your
Supporting documentation requirements. We are making                          U.S. federal tax return.
significant changes to the medical and school record                             See How To Apply, later, for more information.
documentation requirements. Also, we restructured the text to
                                                                              ITIN not needed for estimated tax payments or extensions.
clarify when applicants claimed as dependents must prove
                                                                              If you receive income such as self-employment income without
residency and what documentation needs to be provided when
                                                                              having taxes withheld, you may have to make estimated tax
residency must be proved. See Supporting Documentation
                                                                              payments even if you don't have an ITIN when you earn the
Requirements, later.
                                                                              income. If you're making an estimated tax payment using Form
Medical/School records checklist. We added a new detailed                     1040-ES or Form 1040-ES (NR) or filing an application for an
medical/school records checklist at the end of the instructions.              extension of time to file using Form 4868, mail payments to the
                                                                              IRS with an estimated tax payment voucher or Form 4868 and
Proof of residency. We added text throughout clarifying proof
                                                                              complete all required information on the voucher except enter
of residency requirements for a dependent.

                                          Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 54092G
Dec 10, 2024                             Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
"ITIN TO BE REQUESTED" wherever your social security                    U.S. tax purposes does not need a taxpayer identification
number or ITIN is requested. Don’t file Form W-7 with the               number to make a valid ESBT election.
forms or voucher. An ITIN will be issued only after you file a tax
                                                                        Social security numbers. Don’t complete Form W-7 if you
return and meet all other requirements. See Form 1040-ES or
                                                                        have an SSN or if you’re eligible to get an SSN. You’re eligible for
Form 1040-ES (NR) and its instructions for more information on
                                                                        an SSN if you’re a U.S. citizen or if you’ve been admitted by the
completing the voucher and when estimated tax payments are
                                                                        United States for permanent residence or U.S. employment.
required.
                                                                           To get an SSN, see Form SS-5, Application for a Social
Dependent applicants must specify their relationship to                 Security Card. To get Form SS-5 or to find out if you’re eligible to
the U.S. citizen/resident alien. An applicant who chooses               get an SSN, go to SSA.gov or contact a Social Security
reason d must enter the relationship he or she has to the U.S.          Administration (SSA) office.
citizen/resident alien in the designated space on Form W-7.
                                                                           If you have an application for an SSN pending, don’t file Form
The passport isn’t a stand-alone document for certain de-               W-7. Complete Form W-7 only if the SSA notifies you that you’re
pendents if no date of entry into the United States is                  ineligible for an SSN.
present. A passport that doesn’t have a date of entry into the             If the SSA determines that you’re not eligible for an SSN, you
United States won’t be accepted as a stand-alone identification         must get a letter of denial and attach it to your Form W-7. This
document for certain dependents. See Proof of U.S. residency            applies whether you’re attaching Form W-7 to your U.S. federal
for applicants who are dependents under Supporting                      tax return or not. However, students, professors, and
Documentation Requirements, later, for more information.                researchers, see information for box f, later.

General Instructions                                                       Once you are issued an SSN, use it to file your tax return. Use
                                                                        your SSN to file your tax return even if your SSN does not
What’s an ITIN. An ITIN is a nine-digit number issued by the            authorize employment or if you have been issued an SSN that
IRS to individuals who are required for federal tax purposes to         authorizes employment and you lose your employment
have a U.S. taxpayer identification number but who don’t have           authorization. An ITIN will not be issued to you once you have
and aren’t eligible to get a social security number (SSN).              been issued an SSN. If you received your SSN after previously
                                                                        using an ITIN, stop using your ITIN. Use your SSN instead.
Purpose of Form                                                         Allowable tax benefit. For tax years after December 31, 2017,
Use Form W-7 for the following purposes.                                spouses and dependents are NOT eligible for an ITIN or to
 • To apply for a new ITIN. Individuals applying for an ITIN            renew an ITIN unless they are claimed for an allowable tax
must include a U.S. federal tax return unless they meet an              benefit or they file their own tax return. Spouses and dependents
exception, and the required documentation.                              must be listed on an attached U.S. federal tax return and include
 • To renew an ITIN. An ITIN only needs to be renewed if it’ll be       the schedule, form, or check the box on the return that applies to
included on a U.S. federal tax return and it’s expired. Individuals     the allowable tax benefit. An allowable tax benefit includes:
renewing an ITIN must include a U.S. federal tax return unless          • A spouse filing a joint return,
they meet an exception, and the required documentation. See             • Head of household (HOH),
How To Apply, later, for more information on how to renew your          • Qualifying surviving spouse (QSS),
ITIN.                                                                   • American opportunity tax credit (AOTC),
         If your ITIN is only used on information returns filed with    • Premium tax credit (PTC),
    !    the IRS by third parties, you don’t have to renew your         • Child and dependent care credit (CDCC), or
 CAUTION ITIN for purposes of filing a U.S. federal tax return if the   • Credit for other dependents (ODC).
ITIN has expired. However, in the future, if you file an income tax       Head of household (HOH). If Form W-7 is submitted to
return, you will need to renew your ITIN at that time.                  claim the HOH filing status, then an attached tax return is
                                                                        required that checks the HOH filing status box and lists the
The ITIN is for federal tax purposes only. Examples of using            applicant as a dependent. Dependent applicants must be your
an ITIN for federal tax purposes include filing an individual           qualifying children or qualifying relatives who are related to you
federal tax return to claim a refund or report income. An ITIN          and must either:
doesn’t entitle you to social security benefits and doesn’t change      • Have lived with you for more than half the year (including
your immigration status or your right to work in the United States.     temporary absences), or
The ITIN can’t be used to claim certain federal tax credits.            • Be your parent.
Individuals filing tax returns using an ITIN aren’t eligible for the    See Pub. 501 for more information.
earned income credit (EIC). Also, a child who has an ITIN can’t           Qualifying surviving spouse (QSS). If Form W-7 is
be counted as a qualifying child in figuring the amount of the EIC.     submitted to claim the QSS filing status, then an attached tax
For more information, see Pub. 596, Earned Income Credit                return is required that checks the QSS filing status box and lists
(EIC). Also, for tax years 2018 through 2025, a child who has an        the applicant as a dependent. A dependent applicant must be
ITIN can’t be claimed as a qualifying child for purposes of the         your child or stepchild (not a foster child) and must have lived
child tax credit and the additional child tax credit. For more          with you the entire year (including temporary absences). See
information, see Schedule 8812 (Form 1040), Credits for                 Pub. 501 for more information.
Qualifying Children and Other Dependents, and its instructions.                 An ITIN will not be assigned or renewed for an HOH or
If an ITIN is applied for on or before the due date of a return                 QSS qualifying person who is not also claimed as a
(including extensions) and the IRS issues an ITIN as a result of
                                                                          !
                                                                        CAUTION dependent on an attached tax return.

the application, the IRS will consider the ITIN as issued on or
before the due date of the return. See the instructions for your          American opportunity tax credit (AOTC). If Form W-7 is
U.S. federal tax return for more information.                           submitted to claim the AOTC, then an attached tax return and
                                                                        Form 8863 that list the applicant as a dependent are required.
The ITIN may not be required for an electing small busi-                Dependent applicants must be dependents of the taxpayer who
ness trust (ESBT) election. A nonresident alien who is a                claims the AOTC. See Pub. 970 for more information.
potential current beneficiary of an ESBT and who is not                   Premium tax credit (PTC). If Form W-7 is submitted to claim
otherwise required to have a taxpayer identification number for         the PTC, then an attached tax return that lists the applicant as a

2                                                                                    Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
dependent and Form 8962 are required. See Pub. 974 for more             claimed as a dependent on a U.S. federal tax return, see Pubs.
information.                                                            501 and 519.
   Child and dependent care credit (CDCC). Form W-7 can                           Dependents can be claimed as exemptions only for tax
be submitted for a dependent claimed for the CDCC even if the                     years prior to 2018.
tax return has no tax to be reduced by the CDCC. If Form W-7 is           !
submitted to claim the CDCC, then an attached tax return that
                                                                        CAUTION


lists the applicant as a dependent and Form 2441 that lists the
                                                                        • A dependent/spouse of a nonresident alien U.S. visa holder
                                                                        who isn’t eligible for an SSN. See Pub. 519.
applicant as a qualifying person are required. See Pub. 503 for
more information.                                                                 Dependents and spouses can be claimed as exemptions
   Credit for other dependents (ODC). Form W-7 can be                     !       only for tax years prior to 2018.
submitted for a dependent claimed for the ODC even if the tax           CAUTION

return has no tax to be reduced by the ODC and Schedule 8812
is not included. If Form W-7 is submitted to claim a dependent          Note. The deduction for personal exemptions was suspended
for the ODC, then an attached tax return that lists the applicant       for tax years 2018 through 2025. For tax years beginning after
as a dependent with the “Credit for other dependents” box               2017, spouses or dependents aren’t eligible for an ITIN, unless
checked next to their name is required. Dependent applicants            they are claimed for an allowable tax benefit or file their own tax
must be U.S. residents or U.S. nationals. See Schedule 8812             return. The individual must be listed on an attached U.S. federal
(Form 1040) and its instructions for more information.                  tax return with the schedule or form that applies to the allowable
                                                                        tax benefit. See the instructions for your U.S. federal tax return
          Listing a dependent on the attached tax return is not an      for more information.
 TIP allowable tax benefit on its own. If your dependent
         qualifies you for the ODC or a filing status, be sure to           2. Persons who must renew their ITIN to file a U.S. federal
check the box for the ODC or the filing status. For example,            tax return. See Renewal of an existing ITIN under How To Apply,
when preparing your tax return, tax software might not                  later.
automatically check the "Credit for other dependents" box for a
dependent with no taxpayer identification number listed on the          Supporting Documentation
tax return. You need to make sure this box is checked. We will          Requirements
enter the ITIN on your return when we issue the ITIN.
                                                                        Whether you are applying for a new ITIN or renewing an existing
                                                                        ITIN, you must provide documentation that meets the following
Who Is Eligible To Complete This                                        requirements.
Form                                                                        1. You must submit documentation to establish your identity
The following individuals are eligible to complete Form W-7.            and your connection to a foreign country (“foreign status”).
                                                                        Applicants claimed as dependents must also prove U.S.
    1. Any individual who isn’t eligible to get an SSN but who          residency unless the applicant is a dependent of U.S. military
must furnish a taxpayer identification number for U.S. tax              personnel stationed overseas or the applicant is from Canada or
purposes or to file a U.S. federal tax return must apply for an ITIN    Mexico and is claimed for any allowable tax benefit other than
on Form W-7. Examples include the following.                            the credit for other dependents (ODC). Dependent applicants
• A nonresident alien individual claiming reduced withholding           claimed for ODC must submit proof of U.S. residency unless
under an applicable income tax treaty for which an ITIN is              they are dependents of U.S. military personnel stationed
required (see Regulations section 1.1441-1(e)(4)(vii)(A)). Also         overseas. See Proof of U.S. residency for applicants who are
see Pub. 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and              dependents, later.
Foreign Entities.
• A nonresident alien individual not eligible for an SSN who is             2. You must submit original documents, or certified copies of
required to file a U.S. federal tax return or who is filing a U.S.      these documents from the issuing agency, that support the
federal tax return to claim a refund or to report income.               information provided on Form W-7. A certified copy of a
• A nonresident alien individual not eligible for an SSN who            document is one that the original issuing agency provides and
elects to file a joint U.S. federal tax return with a spouse who is a   certifies as an exact copy of the original document and contains
U.S. citizen or resident alien. See Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for        an official stamped seal from the agency. You may be able to
Aliens.                                                                 request a certified copy of documents at an embassy or
• A U.S. resident alien (based on the number of days present in         consulate. However, services may vary between countries, so it’s
the United States, known as the “substantial presence” test) who        recommended that you contact the appropriate consulate or
files a U.S. federal tax return but who isn’t eligible for an SSN.      embassy for specific information.
For information about the substantial presence test, see Pub.                     Original documents you submit will be returned to you at
519.                                                                     TIP the mailing address shown on your Form W-7. You don’t
• A nonresident alien student, professor, or researcher who is                   need to provide a return envelope. Applicants are
required to file a U.S. federal tax return but who isn’t eligible for   permitted to include a prepaid Express Mail or courier envelope
an SSN, or who is claiming an exception to the tax return filing        for faster return delivery of their documents and to ensure the
requirement. See Pub. 519.                                              secure delivery of valuable documents, such as passports. The
• An alien spouse claimed as an exemption on a U.S. federal             IRS will then return the documents in the envelope provided by
tax return who isn’t eligible to get an SSN. See Pub. 501,              the applicant. If your original documents aren’t returned within 60
Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information, and             days, you can call the IRS (see Telephone help, earlier). If you
Pub. 519.                                                               will need your documents for any purpose within 60 days of
          A spouse can be claimed as an exemption only for tax          submitting your ITIN application, you may wish to apply in person
          years prior to 2018.                                          at an IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center or a CAA. See Where To
  !
CAUTION
                                                                        Apply, later.
• An alien individual eligible to be claimed as a dependent on a           3. The documentation you provide must be current (that is,
U.S. federal tax return but who isn’t eligible to get an SSN. Your      not expired at the time you submit your application).
spouse is never considered your dependent. For more
information about whether an alien individual is eligible to be

Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                            3
    There are 13 acceptable documents, as shown in the                              • Applicant's name, date of birth, address (must be a U.S.
following table. At least one document must contain your                           address if proof of U.S. residency is required);
photograph, unless you’re a dependent under age 14 (under age                       • Date of medical care within 12 months before the date of the
18 if a student). You may later be required by the IRS to provide a                Form W-7 application; and
certified translation of foreign-language documents.                                • Doctor's name and medical facility's address where the care
                                                                                   was provided (must be a U.S. address if proof of U.S. residency
                                                              Can be used to       is required).
                                                                establish:         A combination of the official documents can be used to cover all
                 Supporting Documentation                                          requirements for the record.
                                                             Foreign
                                                              status
                                                                     Identity         School records (accepted only for dependents under 24
                                                                                   years of age). School records MUST include all the following.
 Passport (the only stand-alone document*)                       x         x        • Official document such as a report card, transcript, or dated
 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)                                 letter from a school official on letterhead (the dated letter must
 photo identification                                            x         x       be signed);
                                                                                    • Applicant's name and address (must be a U.S. address if
 Visa issued by the U.S. Department of State                     x         x
                                                                                   proof of U.S. residency is required);
 U.S. driver’s license                                                     x        • Record of attendance or coursework with grades;
 U.S. military identification card                                         x        • School's name and address (must be a U.S. address if proof
                                                                                   of U.S. residency is required); and
 Foreign driver’s license                                                  x        • School term dates ending no more than 12 months from the
 Foreign military identification card                            x         x       date of the Form W-7 application.
                                                                                   A combination of the official documents can be used to cover all
 National identification card (must contain name,
 photograph, address, date of birth, and expiration date)        x         x
                                                                                   requirements for the record.
 U.S. state identification card                                            x               Before submitting your application package, carefully
                                                                                    TIP assess the quality of your documents and review for
 Foreign voter’s registration card                               x         x
                                                                                             completeness. Pay particular attention to medical or
 Civil birth certificate                                        x**        x       school records as these documents may not be government
 Medical records (valid only for dependents under age 6)        x**        x
                                                                                   issued. Documents that are not clear or contain blemishes are
                                                                                   likely to be considered invalid. To ensure your application
 School records (valid only for a dependent under age                              package is complete, use the Medical/School Records Checklist
 24, if a student)                                              x**        x       at the end of these instructions.
 * Applicants claimed as dependents who need to prove U.S. residency must
 provide additional original documentation if the passport doesn’t have a date
                                                                                      Proof of U.S. residency for applicants who are
 of entry into the United States. See Proof of U.S. residency for applicants who   dependents. Applicants claimed as dependents (reason d on
 are dependents below.                                                             Form W-7) need to prove U.S. residency unless they are (1)
 ** May be used to establish foreign status only if documents are foreign.         dependents of U.S. military personnel stationed overseas or (2)
                                                                                   from Canada or Mexico and are either listed on a submitted
                                                                                   return for tax years 2017 or earlier or are claimed for any
                                                                                   allowable tax benefit other than the credit for other dependents
If you submit an original valid passport or a certified copy from                  (ODC). All other applicants claimed as dependents, including
the issuing agency, you don’t need to submit any other                             applicants from Canada or Mexico claimed for the ODC, are
documents from the table. Otherwise, you must submit at least                      required to submit at least one of the following original
two types of documents listed in the "Supporting                                   documents as proof of U.S. residency unless a passport is
Documentation" table that prove identity and foreign status, and                   submitted with a date of entry into the United States.
that meet the photograph requirement explained earlier.                             • If under 6 years of age: A valid U.S. medical record, U.S.
                                                                                   school record, U.S. state identification card, or U.S. visa that
Note. If you received a school record, medical record, bank                        meets all supporting documentation requirements.
statement, utility bill, or rental statement electronically and                     • If at least 6 years of age but under 18 years of age: A
printed it out for submission with the Form W-7 application, then                  valid U.S. school record, U.S. state identification card, U.S.
this document may be considered original.                                          driver's license, or U.S. visa that meets all supporting
                                                                                   documentation requirements.
Additional Documentation Requirements                                               • If 18 years of age or older: A valid U.S. school record
    Civil birth certificate. An original birth certificate is required             (under age 24 only), U.S. state identification card, U.S. driver's
if the applicant is under age 18 and hasn’t provided a valid                       license, or U.S. visa that meets all supporting documentation
passport. Civil birth certificates are considered current at all                   requirements; U.S. bank statement, U.S. rental statement, or
times because they don’t contain an expiration date.                               U.S. utility bill from a U.S. property that lists the applicant's name
    Passports and national identification cards. These                             and U.S. address.
documents will be considered current only if their expiration date
hasn’t passed prior to the date the Form W-7 is submitted. In                      How To Apply
general, the postmark date determines when the document was                        Follow the guidelines below if you’re applying for a new ITIN or
submitted. Certified copies of a passport from the issuing                         renewing an existing ITIN.
agency must include the U.S. visa pages if a visa is required for
                                                                                           For your convenience, you can access fillable Form W-7
your Form W-7 application.
                                                                                    TIP at IRS.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw7.pdf, complete, print, then sign
    Medical records (accepted only for dependents under 6                                  the Form W-7.
years of age). Medical records MUST include all the following.
 • Official document such as a shot/immunization record or
dated letter from the medical provider on official letterhead (the                 Note. Keep a copy of your application for your records.
dated letter must be signed);



4                                                                                               Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
Applying for an ITIN for the first time. If you’ve never had an                Spouses and dependents who renew their ITIN to be
ITIN before and are submitting an application for a new ITIN,            !     claimed for an allowable tax benefit must be listed on an
                                                                       CAUTION attached U.S. federal tax return with the schedule or
include the following in your Application Package.
                                                                      form that applies to the allowable benefit or, in the case of the
    1. Your completed Form W-7.                                       credit for other dependents, the box next to their name must be
Note. If you submit a Form W-7, all future ITIN notices and           checked on the attached tax return.
correspondence that you receive will be in English. If you prefer
to receive them in Spanish, submit Form W-7(SP).                      Certified copies. You can submit copies of original documents
    2. Your original tax return(s) for which the ITIN is needed.      if you do any of the following.
Attach Form W-7 to the front of your tax return. If you’re applying    • Have the copies certified by the issuing agency.
for more than one ITIN for the same tax return (such as for a          • Have the officers at U.S. embassies and consulates overseas
spouse or dependent(s)), attach all Forms W-7 to the same tax         provide certification and authentication services. Contact the
return. Leave the area of the SSN blank on the tax return for         Consular Section, American Citizens Services of the U.S.
each person who is applying for an ITIN. After your Forms W-7         Embassy or Consulate in advance to determine the hours of
have been processed, the IRS will assign an ITIN to the return        operation for these services.
and process the return.                                               Deceased taxpayers. When requesting an ITIN for a deceased
        There are exceptions to the requirement to include a          taxpayer, the deceased must meet all of the requirements
  TIP U.S. federal tax return. If you claim one of these              established to get an ITIN. Also, you must write “Deceased” and
        exceptions, you must submit the documentation required        the date of death across the top of the Form W-7 and include the
instead of a tax return. See Exceptions Tables, later.                documentation shown in the following chart.

    3. Original documents, or certified copies of these                IF you’re:                      THEN you must include:
documents from the issuing agency, required to support the
information provided on Form W-7. The required supporting              The surviving spouse            • Form W-7,
documentation must be consistent with each applicant’s                 filing an original or           • A U.S. individual income tax return, and
information provided on Form W-7. For example, the name, date          amended joint return with       • Documentation substantiating the identity
                                                                       their deceased spouse           and foreign status of the deceased.
of birth, and country(ies) of citizenship shown in the
documentation must be the same as on Form W-7, lines 1a, 1b,           The court-appointed             • Form W-7,
4, and 6a. See Supporting Documentation Requirements,                  executor or administrator       • A U.S. individual income tax return,
earlier, for a list of the documents to be submitted with your         of the deceased’s estate        • Documentation substantiating the identity
application package.                                                   filing an original tax return   and foreign status of the deceased*, and
                                                                       on behalf of the deceased       • A court certificate showing your appointment.
Renewal of an existing ITIN. If your ITIN has expired and the          Neither the surviving           • Form W-7,
ITIN will be included on a U.S. federal tax return, follow the         spouse nor the                  • A U.S. individual income tax return,
guidelines below to submit your renewal application. If your ITIN      court-appointed executor        • Documentation substantiating the identity
won’t be included on a U.S. federal tax return, you don’t need to      or administrator of the         and foreign status of the deceased*,
renew your ITIN at this time.                                          deceased’s estate               • Form 1310 (if a refund is due), and
                                                                                                       • A copy of the certificate of death.
        If you don’t renew the expired ITIN and you file a
                                                                       * If Form W-7 is for a deceased individual under 18 years of age, one of the
  !     U.S. federal tax return with the expired ITIN, there           documents proving identity, foreign status, and/or U.S. residency must be a
CAUTION may be a delay in processing your tax return.
                                                                       birth certificate, unless a passport with a date of entry into the United States is
                                                                       submitted.
    Include the following in your Renewal Application Package.
    1. Your completed Form W-7. You must check a check box
in the Application type box at the top of page 1 indicating the
                                                                              If you attached your tax return to your Form W-7, leave
reason you’re completing the Form W-7 even if you’re applying to
                                                                         !    the area of the SSN blank on the new tax return for each
renew your ITIN.                                                      CAUTION person who is applying for an ITIN.
    2. Your original tax return(s) you’re filing, and on which the
ITIN is listed. Attach Form W-7 to the front of your tax return. If
you’re renewing more than one ITIN for the same tax return
                                                                      When To Apply
(such as for a spouse or dependent(s)), attach all Forms W-7 to       First-time ITIN applications. If you’re applying for a new ITIN,
the same tax return. After your Forms W-7 have been processed,        complete and attach Form W-7 to the front of your tax return and
the IRS will process the return.                                      file your application package with your tax return for which the
    3. Original documents, or certified copies of these               ITIN is needed on or before the due date for the return. If you’re
documents from the issuing agency, required to support the            unable to file your tax return by the due date, you must file an
information provided on Form W-7. The required supporting             application for an extension of time to file by the due date of the
documentation must be consistent with each applicant’s                return. Failure to timely file the tax return with a complete Form
information provided on Form W-7. For example, the name, date         W-7 and required documentation may result in the denial of
of birth, and country(ies) of citizenship shown in the                refundable credits, such as the additional child tax credit
documentation must be the same as on Form W-7, lines 1a, 1b,          (available for tax years prior to 2018) and the American
4, and 6a. See Supporting Documentation Requirements,                 opportunity tax credit, if you otherwise qualify. Don’t file your tax
earlier, for a list of the documents to be submitted with your        return without Form W-7 and required documentation.
renewal application package.                                              If you meet one of the exceptions described in Exceptions
                                                                      Tables at the end of these instructions, you may complete and
                                                                      submit Form W-7 at any time.
                                                                              You can’t electronically file (e-file) a return using an ITIN
                                                                         !    in the calendar year the ITIN is assigned. If you need to
                                                                      CAUTION file multiple-year returns, you can attach them all to your

                                                                      Form W-7 and submit them to the IRS using one of the methods

Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                                               5
described later in Where To Apply. Once your ITIN is assigned,        Note. AAs and CAAs are available both domestically and
you can e-file returns in the following years. For example, if you    abroad.
apply for and receive an ITIN this year, you may not e-file any tax       Acceptance Agent (AA). An AA can help you complete and
return using that ITIN (including prior-year returns) until next      file Form W-7. To get a list of agents, visit IRS.gov and enter
year.                                                                 “acceptance agent program” in the search box. An AA will need
                                                                      to submit original documentation or certified copies of the
Renewal ITIN applications. If you’re renewing an existing ITIN,       documentation from the issuing agency to the IRS for all
you must submit your Form W-7 renewal application with your           applicants.
U.S. federal tax return using one of the methods described below          Certifying Acceptance Agent (CAA). A CAA can verify
in Where To Apply. Spouses and dependents who renew their             original documentation and certified copies of the
ITIN must be listed on an attached U.S. federal tax return with       documentation from the issuing agency for primary and
the schedule or form that applies to the allowable tax benefit. If    secondary applicants and their dependents, except for foreign
you don’t renew your expired ITIN and you file a U.S. federal tax     military identification cards. For dependents, CAAs can only
return with the expired ITIN, there may be a delay in processing      verify passports and birth certificates. The CAA will return the
your tax return.                                                      documentation immediately after reviewing its authenticity.
Where To Apply                                                        Processing times. Allow 7 weeks for the IRS to notify you of
                                                                      your ITIN application status (9 to 11 weeks if you submit the
By mail. Mail Form W-7, your tax return (if applicable) or other      application during peak processing periods (January 15 through
documents required by an exception, and the documentation             April 30) or if you’re filing from overseas). If you haven’t received
described under Supporting Documentation Requirements,                your ITIN or correspondence at the end of that time, you can call
earlier, to:                                                          the IRS to find out the status of your application (see Telephone
                                                                      help, earlier).
        Internal Revenue Service
        ITIN Operation
        P.O. Box 149342                                               Specific Instructions
        Austin, TX 78714-9342
                                                                      If you’re completing this form for someone else, answer the
         If you mail your application, don’t use the mailing          questions as they apply to that individual.
    !    address in the instructions for your tax return (for
 CAUTION example, Form 1040-NR). Your tax return will be
                                                                      Application Type
processed after it is mailed as part of your application package      Check the applicable box to indicate if you’re:
to the address in these instructions.                                   1. a first-time applicant applying for a new ITIN, or
                                                                        2. seeking to renew an ITIN that you already have.
By private delivery services. If you use a private delivery
service, submit your Form W-7, your tax return (if applicable) or       If you check Renew an existing ITIN, you must answer the
other documents required by an exception, and the                     question on line 6e and include your ITIN information on line 6f.
documentation described under Supporting Documentation                See the instructions for lines 6e and 6f for more information.
Requirements, earlier, to:
                                                                      Reason You’re Submitting Form W-7
        Internal Revenue Service                                      You must check the box to indicate the reason you’re
        ITIN Operation                                                completing Form W-7 even if you’re applying to renew your
        Mail Stop 6090-AUSC                                           ITIN. If more than one box applies to you, check the box that
        3651 S. Interregional, Hwy 35                                 best explains your reason for submitting Form W-7. A selection
        Austin, TX 78741-0000                                         must be made in this section.
                                                                      a. Nonresident alien required to get an ITIN to claim tax
   The private delivery service can tell you how to get written
                                                                      treaty benefit. Certain nonresident aliens must get an ITIN to
proof of the mailing date.
                                                                      claim certain tax treaty benefits even if they don’t have to file a
In person. You can apply for your ITIN by visiting designated         U.S. federal tax return. If you check this box to claim the benefits
IRS Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs). They can verify               of a U.S. income tax treaty with a foreign country, you must also
original documentation and certified copies of the                    check box h. On the dotted line next to box h, enter the
documentation from the issuing agency for primary and                 appropriate designation for Exception 1 or 2, whichever applies
secondary applicants and their dependents. For dependents,            (see Exception 1 and Exception 2, later). Identify the exception
TACs can verify passports, national identification cards, and birth   by its number, alpha subsection, and category under which
certificates. These documents will be returned to you                 you’re applying (for example, enter “Exception 1d-Pension
immediately. Service at TACs is by appointment only.                  Income” or “Exception 2d-Gambling Winnings”). Also, enter the
Appointments can be scheduled by calling 844-545-5640. See            name of the treaty country and treaty article number in the
IRS.gov/W7DocumentVerification for a list of designated TACs          appropriate entry spaces below box h and attach the documents
that offer ITIN document authentication service. TACs that don’t      required under whichever exception applies. For more details on
offer ITIN document authentication service will mail the original     tax treaties, see Pub. 901.
documents, Form W-7, and the tax return to the IRS Austin
                                                                      b. Nonresident alien filing a U.S. federal tax return. This
Service Center for processing.
                                                                      category includes:
Through an acceptance agent. You can also apply through               • A nonresident alien who must file a U.S. federal tax return to
one of the two types of acceptance agents authorized by the           report income effectively or not effectively connected with the
IRS.                                                                  conduct of a trade or business in the United States, and
   1. Acceptance Agent (AA).                                          • A nonresident alien who is filing a U.S. federal tax return only
                                                                      to get a refund. See Pub. 519.
   2. Certifying Acceptance Agent (CAA).



6                                                                                  Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
         If you choose reason b, you must provide a complete             documents. A copy of the servicemember’s U.S. military ID is
  !      foreign (non-U.S.) address on line 3. If you no longer          required if the documents are notarized. Additionally, the
 CAUTION have a permanent foreign residence, enter a complete            applicant must be applying from an overseas or APO/FPO
foreign (non-U.S.) address for your most recent residence in the         address.
country where you permanently or normally resided.                          If you’re applying for an ITIN under this category, you must
                                                                         provide the full name and SSN or ITIN of the U.S. citizen/
c. U.S. resident alien (based on days present in the United              resident alien. Enter the information on the dotted line in the
States) filing a U.S. federal tax return. A foreign individual           space provided.
living or present in the United States for a certain number of days
(that is, meeting the test known as the “substantial presence”                     A spouse can be claimed as a personal exemption only
test) who doesn’t have permission to work from the USCIS, and              !       for tax years prior to 2018.
is ineligible for an SSN, may still be required to file a U.S. federal   CAUTION

tax return or may file a U.S. federal tax return to claim a refund or    f. Nonresident alien student, professor, or researcher filing
report income. These individuals must check this box and                 a U.S. federal tax return or claiming an exception. This is an
include a date of entry into the United States on line 6d. For           individual who hasn’t abandoned his or her residence in a
information about the substantial presence test, see Pub. 519.           foreign country and who is a bona fide student, professor, or
d. Dependent of U.S. citizen/resident alien. This is an                  researcher coming temporarily to the United States solely to
individual who can be claimed as a dependent on a U.S. federal           attend classes at a recognized institution of education, to teach,
tax return and isn’t eligible to get an SSN. Your spouse is never        or to perform research. For more information about the U.S. tax
considered your dependent. See Pubs. 501 and 519.                        rules that apply to foreign students, professors, or researchers,
Dependents of U.S. military personnel can submit original                see Pub. 519.
documents, certified copies or notarized copies of identification            If you check this box, you must complete lines 6a, 6c, 6d, and
documents. A copy of the servicemember’s U.S. military ID is             6g, and provide your passport with a valid U.S. visa. No U.S. visa
required if the documents are notarized. Additionally, the               needs to be provided if the foreign address is Canada, Mexico,
applicant must be applying from an overseas or APO/FPO                   or Bermuda. If you’re present in the United States on a
address.                                                                 work-related visa (F-1, J-1, or M-1), but won’t be employed (that
    If you’re applying for an ITIN under this category, you must         is, your presence in the United States is study related), you can
provide the relationship (for example, parent, child, grandchild,        choose to attach a letter from the Designated School Official
etc.) of the dependent to the U.S. citizen/resident alien. Enter the     (DSO) or Responsible Officer (RO) instead of applying to the
information on the dotted line in the space provided.                    SSA for an SSN. The letter must clearly state that you won’t be
    Also, if you’re applying for an ITIN under this category, you        securing employment while in the United States and your
must provide the full name and SSN or ITIN of the U.S. citizen/          presence here is solely study related. This letter can be
resident alien. Enter the information on the dotted line in the          submitted instead of a Social Security Administration denial
space provided and include a date of entry into the United States        letter if you’re filing a tax return with this Form W-7 or claiming
on line 6d, unless the applicant is a dependent of U.S. military         Exception 2 (explained later).
personnel stationed overseas or is from Canada or Mexico and                 Nonresident alien students and exchange visitors, their
the applicant is claimed for an allowable tax benefit other than         spouses, and dependents under the Student Exchange Visitors
the credit for other dependents (ODC). Dependent applicants              Program (SEVP) claiming Exception 2 (no tax return attached)
claimed for the ODC must provide a date of entry on line 6d              can have their original ID certified by an SEVP-approved
unless they are dependents of U.S. military personnel stationed          institution, rather than mailing originals to the IRS. These are
overseas.                                                                individuals admitted to the United States under an F, J, or M visa
                                                                         who receive taxable scholarships, fellowships, or other grants.
Note. If you live abroad and requested an adoption taxpayer                  If you check this box to claim an exception under the benefits
identification number (ATIN) for a foreign child you adopted or          of a U.S. income tax treaty with a foreign country, you must also
who has been legally placed in your home pending adoption and            check box h. On the dotted line next to box h, enter the
that request was denied, your dependent may be eligible for an           appropriate designation for Exception 2, explained later. Identify
ITIN. When submitting your Form W-7, make sure that you                  the exception by its number, alpha subsection, and category
include a copy of the legal documents verifying your relationship        under which you’re applying (for example, enter “Exception
to the child.                                                            2b-Scholarship Income and claiming tax treaty benefits” or
         Dependents can be claimed as personal exemptions                “Exception 2c-Scholarship Income”). Also, enter the name of the
         only for tax years prior to 2018. However, the credit for       treaty country and the treaty article number in the appropriate
  !
CAUTION other dependents (ODC) for your child and other                  entry spaces below box h (if applicable) and attach the
qualifying relatives (excluding your spouse) who live in the             documents required under Exception 2. For more information on
United States may be available. See the instructions for your            treaties, see Pub. 901, U.S. Tax Treaties.
U.S. federal tax return for more information.                            g. Dependent/spouse of a nonresident alien holding a U.S.
                                                                         visa. This is an individual who can be claimed as a dependent
e. Spouse of U.S. citizen/resident alien. This category                  for any tax year, or is a spouse on a U.S. federal tax return for a
includes:                                                                tax year before 2018, who is unable, or not eligible, to get an
 • A resident or nonresident alien spouse who isn’t filing a U.S.        SSN, and who has entered the United States with a nonresident
federal tax return (including a joint return) and who isn’t eligible     alien who holds a U.S. visa. If you apply for an ITIN under this
to get an SSN but who, as a spouse, is claimed as an exemption;          category, remember to attach a copy of your visa to your Form
and                                                                      W-7 and include a date of entry into the United States on line 6d.
 • A resident or nonresident alien spouse who isn’t eligible to get
an SSN but who is electing to file a U.S. federal tax return jointly               Dependents and spouses can be claimed as personal
with a spouse who is a U.S. citizen or resident alien. For more            !       exemptions only for tax years prior to 2018.
information about this category, see Pubs. 501 and 519.                  CAUTION


    Spouses of U.S. military personnel can submit original
documents, certified copies, or notarized copies of identification

Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                             7
h. Other. If the reason for your ITIN request isn’t described in       exception may also apply if you have a notice of non-recognition
boxes a through g, check this box. Describe in detail your reason      under Regulations section 1.1445-2(d)(2). See Exceptions
for requesting an ITIN and attach supporting documents.                Tables, later, for more details on Exception 4.
    Frequently, third parties (such as banks and other financial           Information returns applicable to Exception 4 may include the
institutions) that are subject to information-reporting and            following.
withholding requirements will request an ITIN from you to enable       • Form 8288, U.S. Withholding Tax Return for Certain
them to file information returns required by law. If you’re            Dispositions by Foreign Persons.
requesting an ITIN for this reason, you may be able to claim one       • Form 8288-A, Statement of Withholding on Certain
of the exceptions described later. Enter on the dotted line next to    Dispositions by Foreign Persons.
box h the exception that applies to you. Identify the exception by     • Form 8288-B, Application for Withholding Certificate for
its number, alpha subsection (if applicable), and category under       Dispositions by Foreign Persons of U.S. Real Property Interests.
which you’re applying (for example, enter “Exception                      Exception 5. Treasury Decision (T.D.) 9363. This exception
1a-Partnership Income” or “Exception 3-Mortgage Interest”).            may apply if you have an IRS reporting requirement as a
Examples of completed Forms W-7 for “Exceptions” can be                non-U.S. representative of a foreign corporation who needs to
found in Pub. 1915. You won’t need to attach a tax return to your      obtain an ITIN for the purpose of meeting their e-filing
Form W-7.                                                              requirement under T.D. 9363 and you are submitting Form W-7.
   Exception 1. Passive income—third-party withholding or              See Exceptions Tables, later, for more details on Exception 5.
tax treaty benefits. This exception may apply if you’re the                If you’re applying for an ITIN under this exception, enter
recipient of partnership income, interest income, annuity income,      “Exception 5, T.D. 9363” on the dotted line next to box h.
rental income, or other passive income, including income you
receive as the beneficiary of a pension or annuity, that’s subject     Line Instructions
to third-party withholding or covered by tax treaty benefits. See      Enter “N/A” (not applicable) on all sections of each line that don’t
Exceptions Tables, later, for more details on Exception 1.             apply to you. Don’t leave any section blank. For example, line 4
    Information returns applicable to Exception 1 may include the      should have three separate entries.
following.                                                             Line 1a. Enter your legal name on line 1a as it appears on your
 • Form 1042-S, Foreign Person’s U.S. Source Income Subject            identifying documents. Be sure to properly identify your first,
to Withholding.                                                        middle, and last names. This entry should reflect your name as
 • Form 1099-INT, Interest Income.                                     it’ll appear on a U.S. federal tax return.
 • Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Information.
 • Form 8805, Foreign Partner’s Information Statement of               Note. If you’re renewing your ITIN and your legal name has
Section 1446 Withholding Tax.                                          changed since the original assignment of your ITIN, you’ll need
 • Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of Income,                to submit documentation to support your legal name change,
Deductions, Credits, etc.                                              such as your marriage certificate or a court order, which may
         Applicants receiving compensation for personal services       include a divorce decree. Attach supporting documentation to
         performed in the United States, or issued a U.S. visa         Form W-7.
    !
CAUTION that’s valid for employment, should first apply for an SSN
                                                                               Your ITIN will be established using this name. If you don’t
with the SSA. Unless you’re denied an SSN by the SSA and                       use this name on the U.S. federal tax return, the
attach the denial letter to your Form W-7, you aren’t eligible for
                                                                         !
                                                                       CAUTION processing of the U.S. federal tax return may be delayed.
an ITIN.
                                                                       Line 1b. Enter your name as it appears on your birth certificate
          If you’re required to file a federal tax return, then you    if it’s different from your entry on line 1a.
    !     aren’t eligible for Exception 1.
CAUTION                                                                Line 2. Enter your complete mailing address on line 2. This is
  Exception 2. Other income. This exception may apply if:              the address the IRS will use to return your original documents
                                                                       and send written notification of your ITIN application status.
   1. You’re claiming the benefits of a U.S. income tax treaty
with a foreign country and you receive any of the following.               The IRS won’t use the address you enter to update its records
                                                                       for other purposes unless you include a U.S. federal tax return
   a. Wages, salary, compensation, and honoraria payments;             with your Form W-7. If you aren’t including a U.S. federal tax
   b. Scholarships, fellowships, and grants; and/or                    return with your Form W-7 and you changed your home mailing
   c. Gambling income; or                                              address since you filed your last U.S. federal tax return, also file
                                                                       Form 8822, Change of Address, with the IRS at the address
   2. You’re receiving taxable scholarship, fellowship, or grant       listed in the Form 8822 instructions.
income, but not claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty.
    See Exceptions Tables, later, for more details on Exception 2.     Note. If the U.S. Postal Service won’t deliver mail to your
Information returns applicable to Exception 2 may include Form         physical location, enter the U.S. Postal Service’s post office box
1042-S.                                                                number for your mailing address. Contact your local U.S. Post
   Exception 3. Mortgage interest—third-party reporting.               Office for more information. Don’t use a post office box owned
This exception may apply if you have a home mortgage loan on           and operated by a private firm or company.
real property you own in the United States that’s subject to           Line 3. Enter your complete foreign (non-U.S.) address in the
third-party reporting of mortgage interest. See Exceptions             country where you permanently or normally reside, even if it’s the
Tables, later, for more details on Exception 3. Information returns    same as the address on line 2. If you no longer have a
applicable to Exception 3 may include Form 1098, Mortgage              permanent foreign residence due to your relocation to the United
Interest Statement.                                                    States, enter only the foreign country where you last resided on
   Exception 4. Dispositions by a foreign person of U.S. real          line 3. If you selected reason b, Nonresident alien filing a U.S.
property interest—third-party withholding. This exception              federal tax return, as the reason you're submitting Form W-7,
may apply if you’re a party to a disposition of a U.S. real property   then enter the complete foreign (non-U.S.) address for your most
interest by a foreign person, which is generally subject to            recent residence in the country where you permanently or
withholding by the transferee or buyer (withholding agent). This       normally resided. If you’re claiming a benefit under an income tax

8                                                                                   Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
treaty with the United States, the income tax treaty country must       line 6f. If you never had an ITIN or an IRSN, or if you don’t know
be the same as the country listed on line 3.                            your ITIN or IRSN, check the No/Don’t know box.
        Don’t use a post office box or an “in care of” (c/o)                An IRSN is a nine-digit number issued by the IRS to persons
        address instead of a street address on line 2 if you’re         who file a return or make a payment without providing a taxpayer
  !
CAUTION entering just a “country” name on line 3. If you do, your       identification number. You would’ve been issued this number if
application may be rejected.                                            you filed a U.S. federal tax return and didn’t have an SSN. This
                                                                        IRSN will appear on any correspondence the IRS sent you
Line 4. Enter your date of birth in the month/day/year (MM/DD/          concerning that return.
YYYY) format, where MM = 1 to 12 and DD = 1 to 31.                          If you’re submitting Form W-7 to renew your ITIN, you must
Line 6a. Enter the country or countries (in the case of dual            include your previously assigned ITIN on line 6f to avoid delays
citizenship) in which you’re a citizen. Enter the complete country      in processing your Form W-7.
name; don’t abbreviate.                                                 Line 6f. If you have an ITIN and/or an IRSN, list them in the
Line 6b. If your country of residence for tax purposes has              space(s) provided. Identify your first, middle, and last name
issued you a tax identification number, enter that number on            under which the ITIN and/or IRSN was issued. If you were issued
line 6b. For example, if you’re a resident of Canada, enter your        more than one IRSN, attach a separate sheet listing all the
Canadian social security number (known as the Canadian Social           IRSNs you received. On the separate sheet, be sure to write your
Insurance Number).                                                      name and “Form W-7” at the top.
                                                                           If you’re submitting Form W-7 to renew your ITIN, the name
Line 6c. Enter only U.S. nonimmigrant visa information. Include
                                                                        under which you applied for your ITIN must be included on line 6f
the USCIS classification, number of the U.S. visa, and the
                                                                        to avoid delays in processing your Form W-7.
expiration date in month/day/year format. For example, if you
have an F-1/F-2 visa with the number 123456, enter, in the entry        Note. If you’re renewing your ITIN and your legal name has
space, F-1/F-2 and 123456, followed by the visa’s expiration            changed since the original assignment of your ITIN, you’ll need
date in MM/DD/YYYY format. Individuals in possession of an              to submit documentation to support your legal name change,
I-20/I-94 document(s) should attach a copy to their Form W-7.           such as your marriage certificate or a court order, which may
Line 6d. Check the box indicating the type of document you’re           include a divorce decree. Attach supporting documentation to
submitting to prove your identity. Enter the name of the state or       Form W-7.
country or other issuer, the identification number (if any)             Line 6g. If you checked reason f, you must enter the name of
appearing on the document, the expiration date, and the date on         the educational institution and the city and state in which it’s
which you entered the United States. Dates must be entered in           located. You must also enter your length of stay in the United
the month/day/year format.                                              States.
    If you’re submitting more than one document, enter only the              If you’re temporarily in the United States for business
information for the first document on this line. Attach a separate      purposes, you must enter the name of the company with whom
sheet showing the required information for the additional               you’re conducting your business and the city and state in which
document(s). On the separate sheet, be sure to write your name          it’s located. You must also enter your length of stay in the United
and “Form W-7” at the top.                                              States.
Note. If you’re submitting a passport, or a certified copy of a
passport from the issuing agency, no other documentation is
                                                                        Signature
required to prove your identity and foreign status. Ensure any
visa information shown on the passport is entered on line 6c and
                                                                        Who Can Sign Form W-7
the pages of the passport showing the U.S. visa (if a visa is           The applicant is required to sign their Form W-7 unless they
required for your Form W-7) are included with your Form W-7. A          meet one of the conditions noted below. The signature must be
passport that doesn’t have a date of entry into the United States       original.
will no longer be accepted as a stand-alone identification              Applicant is a dependent under 18 years of age. If the
document for dependents, unless the dependents are                      applicant is a dependent under 18 years of age, his or her parent
dependents of U.S. military personnel stationed overseas or the         or court-appointed guardian can sign if the child can’t sign. The
dependents are from Canada or Mexico and are claimed for any            parent or court-appointed guardian must type or print his or her
allowable tax benefit other than the credit for other dependents        name in the space provided and check the appropriate box that
(ODC).                                                                  indicates his or her relationship to the applicant. If the individual
        The “Date of entry into the United States” must contain         is signing as a court-appointed guardian, a copy of the
        the complete date on which you entered the country for          court-appointment papers showing the legal guardianship must
  !
CAUTION the purpose for which you’re requesting an ITIN (if             be attached.
applicable). If you’ve never entered the United States, enter               Adults, other than a parent or court-appointed guardian, can
“Never entered the United States” on this line. A passport              sign Form W-7 only if a Form 2848, Power of Attorney and
without an entry date doesn’t prove U.S. residency and may not          Declaration of Representative, has been signed by a parent or
be used as a stand-alone document for certain dependents. See           court-appointed guardian authorizing the individual to sign for
Supporting Documentation Requirements, earlier.                         the applicant.
   Example. You entered the United States last year to work.            Applicant is a dependent 18 years of age or older. If an
You want to file a tax return for the income you earned in the          applicant is 18 years of age or older, the applicant or a
United States that year. You aren’t eligible to get a social security   court-appointed guardian can sign or appoint a parent or another
number. You file Form W-7 with your tax return for that year. On        individual to sign. The individual (if other than the applicant)
line 6d of your Form W-7, enter, as the “Date of entry into the         must type or print their name in the space provided and check
United States,” the month, day, and year you entered the United         the appropriate box that indicates their relationship to the
States in MM/DD/YYYY format.                                            applicant. If the individual is signing as a court-appointed
                                                                        guardian, a copy of the court-appointment papers showing the
Line 6e. If you ever received an ITIN and/or an Internal Revenue
                                                                        legal guardianship must be attached. Individuals other than the
Service Number (IRSN), check the “Yes” box and complete

Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                             9
applicant or a court-appointed guardian must attach a Form
2848 from the applicant or court-appointed guardian authorizing       Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information
them to sign the Form W-7.                                            on this form to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of the United
                                                                      States. You are required to give us the information. We need it to
        A spouse can’t sign for his or her spouse, unless the         ensure that you are complying with these laws and to allow us to
     !  Power of attorney box is checked and Form 2848 has            figure and collect the right amount of tax.
CAUTION been attached to Form W-7.
                                                                          You are not required to provide the information requested on
Applicant can’t sign their name. If an applicant can’t sign his       a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the
or her name, then the applicant must sign his or her mark (for        form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records
example, an “X” or a thumbprint) in the presence of a witness.        relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as
The witness’s signature is also required and must be identified       their contents may become material in the administration of any
as that of a witness.                                                 Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return
                                                                      information are confidential, as required by Internal Revenue
Note. All Powers of Attorney (POAs) submitted to the IRS must         Code section 6103.
be in English. Any POAs received in a foreign language will be
                                                                          The average time and expenses required to complete and file
considered invalid unless accompanied by a certified English
                                                                      this form will vary depending on individual circumstances. For
translation. The POA must clearly state the purpose for which it’s
                                                                      the estimated averages, see the instructions for your income tax
intended under the Acts authorized section. For more
                                                                      return.
information, go to IRS.gov.
                                                                         If you have suggestions for making this form simpler, we
Acceptance Agent’s Use ONLY                                           would be happy to hear from you. See the instructions for your
Complete all fields as appropriate and enter the eight-digit office   income tax return.
code that was issued to you by the ITIN Program Office.




10                                                                                Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
                                                                Exceptions Tables

                                                                      Exception #1

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
Third-Party
                                                                                        Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Withholding on         Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 1 include:
                                                                                        claim Exception 1:
Passive Income
                       1(a) Individuals who are partners of a U.S. or foreign           1(a) A copy of the portion of the partnership or LLC
                       partnership that invests in the United States and that owns      agreement displaying the partnership’s employer
                       assets that generate income subject to IRS                       identification number and showing that you’re a partner in
                       information-reporting and federal tax withholding                the partnership that’s conducting business in the United
                       requirements; or                                                 States.
                       1(b) Individuals who have opened an interest-bearing             1(b) An original signed letter from the bank on its official
                       bank deposit account that generates income that’s                letterhead, displaying your name and stating that you’ve
                       effectively connected with their U.S. trade or business and      opened a business account that’s subject to IRS information
                       is subject to IRS information reporting and/or federal tax       reporting and/or federal tax withholding on the interest
                       withholding; or                                                  generated during the current tax year.
                       1(c) Individuals who are “resident aliens” for tax purposes      1(c) An original signed letter from the bank on its official
                       and have opened an interest-bearing bank deposit                 letterhead, displaying your name and stating that you’ve
                       account that generates income subject to IRS information         opened an individual deposit account that’s subject to IRS
                       reporting and/or federal tax withholding; or                     information reporting and/or federal tax withholding on the
                                                                                        interest generated during the current tax year.
                       1(d) Individuals who are receiving distributions during the      1(d) An original document or signed letter from the
                       current tax year of income such as pensions, annuities,          withholding agent, on official letterhead, showing your name
                       rental income, royalties, dividends, etc., and are required      and verifying that an ITIN is required to make distributions to
                       to provide an ITIN to the withholding agent (for example,        you during the current tax year that are subject to IRS
                       an investment company, insurance company, financial              information reporting and/or federal tax withholding.
                       institution, etc.) for the purposes of tax withholding and/or    Self-generated income statements will only be accepted with
                       reporting requirements.                                          a copy of the contract or a letter with a postmarked envelope
                                                                                        addressed from the withholding agent.


                                                                      Exception #2

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
2(a). Wages,
Salary,
                       Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 2(a)                 Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Compensation,
                       include:                                                         claim Exception 2(a):
and Honoraria
Payments
                       Individuals claiming the benefits of a tax treaty who:
Claiming the            • Are either exempt or subject to a reduced rate of              • An original letter of employment from the payer of the
benefits of a tax      withholding of tax on their wages, salary, compensation,         income; or
treaty                 and honoraria payments;                                           • A copy of the employment contract; or
                                                                                         • A letter requesting your presence for a speaking
                                                 and                                    engagement, etc.;
                       • Will be submitting Form 8233 to the payer of the income.
                                                                                                                 along with:
                                                                                         • Evidence (information) on the Form W-7 that you’re
                                                                                        entitled to claim the benefits of a tax treaty, and
                                                                                        • A copy of the completed withholding agent’s portion of
                                                                                        Form 8233 attached to Form W-7.




Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                                         11
                                                        Exceptions Tables (continued)
                                                               Exception #2 (continued)

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
2(b).
Scholarships,          Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 2(b)                  Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Fellowships,           include:                                                          claim Exception 2(b):
and Grants
                       Individuals claiming the benefits of a tax treaty who:
Claiming the            • Are either exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of          • An original letter or official notification from the college or
benefits of a tax      tax on their income from scholarships, fellowships, or            university awarding the noncompensatory scholarship,
treaty                 grants (that is, foreign students, scholars, professors,          fellowship, or grant; or
                       researchers, foreign visitors, or any other individual);           • A copy of a contract with a college, university, or
                                                                                         educational institution;
                                                  and
                       • Will be submitting Form W-8BEN to the withholding
                       agent.
                                                                                                                    along with:
                                                                                         • An original or copy certified by the issuing agency of
                                                                                         passport showing the valid visa issued by the U.S.
                       Note. Student and Exchange Visitor Program                        Department of State,
                       (SEVP)-approved institutions for nonresident alien                 • Evidence (information) on the Form W-7 that you’re
                       students and exchange visitors and their spouses and              entitled to claim the benefits of a tax treaty,
                       dependents classified under section 101(a)(15)(F), (M), or         • A copy of the Form W-8BEN that was submitted to the
                       (J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act {8 U.S.C. 1101(a)      withholding agent, and
                       (15)(F), (M), or (J)}: A certification letter is required for      • A letter from the Social Security Administration2 stating
                       each Form W-7 application: primary, associated                    that you’re ineligible to receive a social security number
                       secondary (spouse), and dependent(s).1                            (SSN).

                       1
                         The original certification letter from an SEVP-approved         2
                                                                                           If you’re a student on an F-1, J-1, or M-1 visa who won’t be
                       institution serves as a substitute for submission of original     working while studying in the United States, you won’t have
                       supporting identification documents with Form W-7. The            to apply for an SSN. You will be permitted to provide a letter
                       certification letter must:                                        from the Designated School Official (DSO) or Responsible
                        • Be on original, official college, university, or institution   Officer (RO) stating that you won’t be securing employment
                       letterhead with a verifiable address;                             in the United States or receiving any type of income from
                        • Provide the applicant’s full name and Student Exchange         personal services.
                       Visitor’s Information System (SEVIS) number;
                        • Certify the applicant’s registration in SEVIS;
                        • Certify that the student presented an unexpired
                       passport, visa, or other identification documents for review
                       (Exception: a U.S. visa isn’t required if the foreign address
                       is in Canada or Mexico);
                        • List the identification documents provided to verify
                       identity and foreign status;
                        • Be signed and dated by an SEVIS official: Principal
                       Designated School Official (PDSO), Designated School
                       Official (DSO), Responsible Officer (RO), or Alternate
                       Responsible Officer (ARO) of a certified school exchange
                       program with a verifiable contact telephone number;
                        • Attach copies of documents used to verify the
                       applicant’s identity and foreign status from the approved
                       list of documents presented in the Form W-7 instructions
                       (passport must include a copy of the valid visa issued by
                       the U.S. Department of State). A U.S. visa isn’t required if
                       the foreign address is in Canada or Mexico;
                        • Attach a copy of Form DS-2019, Certificate of Eligibility
                       for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status and/or a copy of Form
                       I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student
                       Status;
                        • Form W-7 must include the treaty country and article
                       number that supports claiming a tax treaty benefit; and
                        • Include a letter from the DSO or RO stating that the
                       applicant won’t be securing employment in the United
                       States or receiving any type of income from personal
                       services.




12                                                                                          Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
                                                       Exceptions Tables (continued)

                                                               Exception #2 (continued)

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
2(c).
Scholarships,          Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 2(c)                  Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Fellowships,           include:                                                          claim Exception 2(c):
and Grants
                       Individuals (that is, foreign students, scholars, professors,      • An original letter or official notification from the
                       researchers, or any other individuals) receiving                  educational institution (that is, college or university) awarding
                       noncompensatory income from scholarships, fellowships,            the noncompensatory scholarship, fellowship, or grant; or
                       or grants that’s subject to IRS information-reporting and/or       • A copy of a contract with a college, university, or
                       withholding requirements during the current year.                 educational institution;
                                                                                                                     along with:
Not claiming                                                                              • An original or copy certified by the issuing agency of
benefits of a tax                                                                        passport showing a valid visa issued by the U.S. Department
treaty                 Note. Student and Exchange Visitor Program                        of State (a U.S. visa isn’t required if the foreign address is in
                       (SEVP)-approved institutions for nonresident alien                Canada or Mexico);
                       students and exchange visitors and their spouses and               • An original letter from the DSO or RO stating that you’re
                       dependents classified under section 101(a)(15)(F), (M), or        receiving noncompensatory income from scholarships,
                       (J) of the Immigration and Nationality Act {8 U.S.C. 1101(a)      fellowships, or grants that’s subject to IRS
                       (15)(F), (M), or (J)}: A certification letter is required for     information-reporting and/or federal tax withholding
                       each Form W-7 application: primary, associated                    requirements during the current year (this letter must be
                       secondary (spouse), and dependent(s).1                            attached to your Form W-7 or your application for an ITIN will
                                                                                         be denied); and
                                                                                          • A letter from the Social Security Administration2 stating
                       1
                         The original certification letter from an SEVP-approved         that you’re ineligible to receive a social security number
                       institution serves as a substitute for submission of original     (SSN).
                       supporting identification documents with Form W-7. The
                       certification letter must:
                        • Be on original, official college, university, or institution
                       letterhead with a verifiable address;                             2
                                                                                           If you’re a student on an F-1, J-1, or M-1 visa who won’t be
                        • Provide the applicant’s full name and Student Exchange         working while studying in the United States, you won’t have
                       Visitor’s Information System (SEVIS) number;                      to apply for an SSN. You will be permitted to provide a letter
                        • Certify the applicant’s registration in SEVIS;                 from the DSO or RO stating that you won’t be securing
                        • Certify that the student presented an unexpired                employment in the United States or receiving any type of
                       passport, visa, or other identification documents for review      income from personal services.
                       (Exception: a U.S. visa isn’t required if the foreign address
                       is in Canada or Mexico);
                        • List the identification documents provided to verify
                       identity and foreign status;
                        • Be signed and dated by an SEVIS official: Principal
                       Designated School Official (PDSO), Designated School
                       Official (DSO), Responsible Officer (RO), or Alternate
                       Responsible Officer (ARO) of a certified school exchange
                       program with a verifiable contact telephone number;
                        • Attach copies of documents used to verify the
                       applicant’s identity and foreign status from the approved
                       list of documents presented in the Form W-7 instructions
                       (passport must include a copy of the valid visa issued by
                       the U.S. Department of State). A U.S. visa isn’t required if
                       the foreign address is in Canada or Mexico;
                        • Attach a copy of Form DS-2019, Certificate of Eligibility
                       for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status and/or a copy of Form
                       I-20, Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student
                       Status;
                        • Form W-7 must include the treaty country and article
                       number that supports claiming a tax treaty benefit; and
                        • Include a letter from the DSO or RO stating that the
                       applicant won’t be securing employment in the United
                       States or receiving any type of income from personal
                       services.




Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                                          13
                                                      Exceptions Tables (continued)

                                                              Exception #2 (continued)

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
2(d). Gambling         Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 2(d)                 Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Income                 include:                                                         claim Exception 2(d):
                       Nonresident aliens visiting the United States who:
Claiming the            • Have gambling winnings,                                       Your Form W-7, which must be submitted through the
benefits of a tax       • Are claiming the benefits of a tax treaty for an exempt or    services of an appropriate gaming official serving as an IRS
treaty                 reduced rate of federal tax withholding on that income, and      ITIN Acceptance Agent to apply for an ITIN under Exception
                        • Will be utilizing the services of a gaming official as an     2(d).
                       IRS ITIN Acceptance Agent.
                                                                                        Note. If you don’t secure the services of a gaming official,
                                                                                        you may still file Form 1040-NR at the end of the tax year
                                                                                        with a Form W-7, attaching a copy of Form 1042-S
                                                                                        displaying the amount of tax withheld. Your Form 1040-NR
                                                                                        should also display the tax treaty article number and country
                                                                                        under which you’re claiming the treaty benefits.



                                                                     Exception #3

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
Third-Party            Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 3 include:           Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Reporting of                                                                            claim Exception 3:
Mortgage
                      Individuals with a home mortgage loan on real property             • Documentation showing evidence of a home mortgage
Interest
                      located in the United States.                                     loan. This includes a copy of the contract of sale or similar
                                                                                        documentation showing evidence of a home mortgage loan
                                                                                        on real property located in the United States.



                                                                     Exception #4

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
Third-Party            Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 4 include:           Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Withholding—                                                                            claim Exception 4:
Disposition by
                      An individual who is a party to the disposition of U.S. real       • A completed Form 8288, Form 8288-A, or Form 8288-B;
a Foreign
                      property interest by a foreign person (buyer or other             and either
Person of U.S.
                      transferee such as a withholding agent) or notice of               • A copy of the real estate sales contract, Settlement
Real Property
                      non-recognition1 under Regulations section 1.1445-2(d)(2)         Statement (HUD-1), or Closing Disclosure, or
Interest
                      from the transferor.                                               • In the case of notice of non-recognition1, document(s) that
                                                                                        evidence a transaction for which a notice of non-recognition
                                                                                        is applicable.

                                                                                        Note. For the seller of the property, copies of the sales
                                                                                        contract, Settlement Statement (HUD-1), or Closing
                                                                                        Disclosure, and copies of Forms 8288 and 8288-A submitted
                                                                                        by the buyer need to be attached to Form W-7.

                                                                                        1
                                                                                          For notices of non-recognition, the document must show
                                                                                        the date of the transaction, the parties involved, and the type
                                                                                        of transfer that took place. For example, for transfers
                                                                                        involving real estate, valid documents include the deed,
                                                                                        Direction to Convey form, or a document that identifies the
                                                                                        replacement property in a like-kind exchange. For transfers
                                                                                        involving stock, an example of a valid document is the
                                                                                        document that facilitates the transaction.




14                                                                                          Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)
                                                      Exceptions Tables (continued)

                                                                    Exception #5

Note. Federal tax withholding and/or information reporting must take place within the current tax year.
Reporting              Persons who are eligible to claim Exception 5 include:           Documentation you must submit if you’re eligible to
Obligations                                                                             claim Exception 5:
under T.D. 9363
                      A non-U.S. representative of a foreign corporation who             • Along with your Form W-7, include an original signed
                      needs to obtain an ITIN for the purpose of meeting their          letter from your employer on corporate letterhead stating that
                      e-filing requirements.                                            an ITIN is needed for T.D. 9363, and you have been
                                                                                        designated as the person responsible for ensuring
                                                                                        compliance with IRS information-reporting requirements.




Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)                                                                                                       15
                                               Medical/School Records Checklist

Use the following checklist to determine if your medical or school record is acceptable. When using a medical or school record, all the
conditions mentioned in the checklist for that document must apply.
                   Conditions                           Medical Records Checklist                            School Records Checklist
  The applicant is eligible to submit a       The applicant is a dependent under 6 years of       The applicant is a dependent under 24 years of
 medical or school record.                    age.                                                age.

  The official document qualifies as a        The official document is (1) a shot or              The official document is (1) a report card, (2) a
 medical or school record.                    immunization record or (2) a dated letter from a    transcript, or (3) a dated letter from a school
                                              medical provider on official letterhead outlining   official on official letterhead indicating record of
                                              dates of care.                                      attendance or coursework with grades.
   The medical or school record satisfies     If the applicant provides a dated letter from the If the applicant provides a dated letter from a
 the signature requirement (if applicable).   medical provider, then this letter must be signed. school official, then this letter must be signed.

    The record includes complete              The record includes the applicant’s name, date      The record includes the applicant’s name and
 information on the applicant.                of birth, and address. (The record shows a U.S.     address. (The record shows a U.S. address for
                                              address for the applicant if proof of U.S.          the applicant if proof of U.S. residency is
                                              residency is required.)                             required.)
    The record includes complete              The record includes the doctor’s name and          The record includes the school’s name and
 information on the provider.                 medical facility’s address where the care was      address. (The record shows a U.S. address for
                                              provided. (The record shows a U.S. address for the school if proof of U.S. residency is required.)
                                              the medical provider if proof of U.S. residency is
                                              required.)
     The record is appropriately dated.       The record includes a date of medical care that     The record shows school term dates ending no
                                              is no more than 12 months from the date of the      more than 12 months from the date of the Form
                                              Form W-7 application.                               W-7 application.
    The record includes all required          A combination of the official documents can be      A combination of the official documents can be
 information.                                 used to cover all requirements for the record.      used to cover all requirements for the record.




16                                                                                      Instructions for Form W-7 (Rev. December 2024)

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
