# p3920_4

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:46:27  
**Original File:** p3920_4.pdf

---

## Content

Department of the Treasury   Contents
               Internal Revenue Service
                                            Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
                                            Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Publication 3920
(Rev. September 2014)                       Payments to Survivors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Cat. No. 32806E                                September 11th Victim Compensation Fund
                                                  of 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Tax Relief for                                 Disability Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
                                               Qualified Disaster Relief Payments . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                                               Death Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Victims of                                     Payments to Survivors of Public Safety
                                                  Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Terrorist                                   Tax Forgiveness for People Who Died . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                               Years Eligible for Tax Forgiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . 4


Attacks
                                               Amount of Tax Forgiven . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                                               Refund of Taxes Paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
                                               How To Claim Tax Forgiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
                                            Estate Tax Reduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
                                            Structured Settlement Factoring
                                                Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
                                            Illustrated Worksheets B and C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
                                            Additional Worksheets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
                                            How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
                                            Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22



                                            Future Developments
                                            For the latest information about developments related to
                                            Publication 3920, such as legislation enacted after it was
                                            published, go to www.irs.gov/pub3920.



                                            Introduction
                                            This publication explains some of the provisions of the
                                            Victims of Terrorism Tax Relief Act of 2001. Under this
                                            Act, the following amounts are not included in income.
                                            (See Payments to Survivors, later, for details about the fol-
                                            lowing amounts.)
                                                 Certain disability payments received in tax years end-
                                                 ing after September 10, 2001, for injuries sustained in
                                                 a terrorist attack.
                                                 Payments from the September 11th Victim Compen-
                                                 sation Fund of 2001.
                                                 Qualified disaster relief payments made after Septem-
                                                 ber 10, 2001, to cover personal, family, living, or fu-
   Get forms and other information               neral expenses incurred because of a terrorist attack.
     faster and easier at IRS.gov                Death benefits paid by an employer to the survivor of
                                                 an employee if the benefits are paid because the em-
                                                 ployee died as a result of a terrorist attack.


Sep 09, 2014
    The Act also provides that the federal income tax liabil-   Useful Items
ity of those who died as a result of the following attacks is   You may want to see:
forgiven for certain tax years.
    The September 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade           Publication
    Center, the Pentagon, and United Airlines Flight 93 in            556 Examination of Returns, Appeal Rights, and
    Somerset County, Pennsylvania (September 11 at­                       Claims for Refund
    tacks).
                                                                      559 Survivors, Executors, and Administrators
    Terrorist attacks involving anthrax occurring after Sep-
    tember 10, 2001, and before January 1, 2002 (an­             Form (and Instructions)
    thrax attacks).                                                   706 United States Estate (and Generation-Skipping
    The April 19, 1995, attack on the Alfred P. Murrah                    Transfer) Tax Return
    Federal Building (Oklahoma City attack).                          1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
For details, see Tax Forgiveness for People Who Died,
                                                                      1040NR U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return
later.
                                                                      1040X Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and your suggestions for fu-             1041 U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts
ture editions.                                                        1310 Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a
   You can write to us at the following address.                          Deceased Taxpayer
    Internal Revenue Service                                          4506 Request for Copy of Tax Return
    Tax Forms and Publications Division
    1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
    Washington, DC 20224                                        Payments to Survivors
   We respond to many letters by telephone. Therefore, it       The following section discusses the tax treatment of cer-
would be helpful if you would include your daytime phone        tain amounts received by survivors of the attacks and sur-
number, including the area code, in your correspondence.        vivors of people who died as a result of the attacks.
   You can send your comments from www.irs.gov/
formspubs/. Click on “More Information” and then on “Give       September 11th Victim Compensation
us feedback.”
   Although we cannot respond individually to each com-         Fund of 2001
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
                                                                Payments from the September 11th Victim Compensation
consider your comments as we revise our tax products.
                                                                Fund of 2001 are not included in income.
   Ordering forms and publications. Visit www.irs.gov/
formspubs/ to download forms and publications, call             Disability Payments
1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676), or write to the ad-
dress below and receive a response within 10 days after         For tax years ending after September 10, 2001, disability
your request is received.                                       payments (including Social Security Disability Insurance
                                                                (SSDI) payments) are not included in income if they are
    Internal Revenue Service                                    for injuries incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack
    1201 N. Mitsubishi Motorway                                 (including the September 11 attacks, anthrax attacks, and
    Bloomington, IL 61705-6613                                  Oklahoma City attack) directed against the United States
                                                                (or its allies). However, you must include in your income
   Questions about Publication 3920. If you have                any disability payments you received or you would have
questions about the topics covered in this publication, call    received in retirement had you not become disabled as a
the IRS at 1­866­562­5227 Monday through Friday during          result of a terrorist attack.
the following times.
    In English–7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time.                               Disability payments you receive for injuries not
                                                                  !       incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack or
    In Spanish–7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time.                     CAUTION

                                                                for illnesses or diseases not resulting from an injury incur­
   Other tax questions. If you have tax questions about         red as a direct result of a terrorist attack cannot be exclu­
topics not covered in this publication, check the informa-      ded from your income under this provision but may be ex­
tion available on IRS.gov or call 1-800-829-1040.               cludable for other reasons. For details, see Publication
                                                                907, Tax Highlights for Persons with Disabilities.
          We cannot answer tax questions sent to either of
  !       the above addresses.                                     Example. Dan, a firefighter, was disabled as a direct
                                                                result of the September 11 terrorist attack on the World
CAUTION


                                                                Trade Center. He began receiving Social Security

Page 2                                                                               Publication 3920 (September 2014)
Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits at age 54. Dan's full       corrected Forms 1099-R from his employer showing
retirement age for social security retirement benefits is        $12,000 of the payments he received in 2012 and $5,000
age 66. Dan's birthday is April 25. In the year Dan turned       of those received in 2013, which had been reported as
66, Dan received $1,500 per month in benefits from the           taxable, should have been classified as nontaxable disa-
Social Security Administration. Because Dan became eli-          bility payments. The policeman files a Form 1040X for
gible for a full retirement benefit in May, the month after he   2012 and a separate one for 2013 asking the IRS to re-
turned 66, he can exclude only four months of his annual         classify the payments as nontaxable. He attaches the cor-
benefit from his income ($6,000). Dan must report the re-        rected Form 1099-R to each Form 1040X. He writes “Pub-
maining $12,000 on Form 1040, line 20a, or Form 1040A,           lication 3920” in Part III of each Form 1040X.
line 14a. He also must complete the Social Security Bene-
fits Worksheet in his tax return instructions to find out if     When taxes are incorrectly withheld. If you receive
any part of the $12,000 is taxable.                              SSDI payments for injuries you incurred as a direct result
                                                                 of a terrorist attack, you may submit Form W-4V, Volun-
When nontaxable payments are reported as taxable.                tary Withholding Request, to your local Social Security
Contact the company or agency making the disability pay-         Administration office by mail or in person to stop the with-
ments if it incorrectly reported payments you received in        holding of income taxes from the SSDI excluded from your
the prior year as taxable income to the IRS on Form W-2,         income.
Wage and Tax Statement, or on Form 1099-R, Distribu-                If income taxes are being incorrectly withheld from any
tions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Shar-       other disability payments, you may submit Form W-4, Em-
ing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc. Ask the com-          ployee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, to the com-
pany or agency to issue a corrected form to report some          pany or agency to stop the withholding of income taxes
or all of these payments as nontaxable income in box 12          from payments reported on Form W-2. You may submit
(under code J) on Form W-2 or in box 1 but not in box 2a         Form W-4P, Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity
on Form 1099-R.                                                  Payments, to stop the withholding of income taxes from
   File Form 1040X to correct disability payments that           payments reported on Form 1099-R.
were incorrectly reported as taxable income on your previ-
ously filed tax returns. Attach copies of the corrected          Qualified Disaster Relief Payments
Form W-2 or Form 1099-R. In Part III of Form 1040X,
mention this publication or Internal Revenue Code section        Qualified disaster relief payments are not included in in-
104(a)(5). If you are unable to obtain a corrected Form          come. These payments are not subject to income tax,
W-2 or Form 1099-R, mention this fact in Part III of Form        self-employment tax, or employment taxes (social secur-
1040X and attach documents that support your claim that          ity, Medicare, and federal unemployment taxes). No with-
you received the disability payments due to injuries you         holding applies to these payments.
sustained as a direct result of a terrorist attack. Follow the
same procedures when filing Form 1040 or Form                      Qualified disaster relief payments include payments
1040NR, except that you should explain on a separate             you receive (regardless of the source) after September
sheet of paper your inability to get a corrected Form W-2        10, 2001, for the following expenses.
or Form 1099-R and attach it to the return.                          Reasonable and necessary personal, family, living, or
   If you are correcting disability payments for a decedent          funeral expenses incurred as a result of a terrorist at-
who is eligible for tax forgiveness (discussed later), con-          tack.
sider whether to request only forgiveness for all income             Reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for the
tax liabilities for all eligible years on Form 1040X or also         repair or rehabilitation of a personal residence due to
state a separate claim for refund on the same Form 1040X             a terrorist attack. (A personal residence can be a ren-
for the disability payments incorrectly reported as taxable          ted residence or one you own.)
income. The income tax forgiveness available for the de-
cedent includes a minimum amount of relief of $10,000.               Reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for the
Accordingly, you may receive a greater total refund by               repair or replacement of the contents of a personal
correcting the prior reporting of disability payments sepa-          residence due to a terrorist attack.
rately from any request for tax forgiveness when the total          Qualified disaster relief payments also include the fol-
tax forgiveness benefit other than for disability payments       lowing.
for all eligible years is less than $10,000.
                                                                     Payments made by common carriers (for example,
        Refunds of disability payments that were incor­              American Airlines and United Airlines regarding the
 TIP rectly reported as taxable income are subject to                September 11 attacks) because of death or physical
        the statute of limitations rules for refunds dis­            injury incurred as a result of a terrorist attack.
cussed later under Period for filing a claim for credit or re-
fund.                                                                Amounts paid by a federal, state, or local government
                                                                     in connection with a terrorist attack to individuals af-
   Example. A policeman is disabled as a direct result of            fected by the attack.
injuries sustained in the September 11 attack on the
World Trade Center. He timely filed his Form 1040 income
tax returns for 2012 and 2013. In 2014, he received

Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                     Page 3
          Qualified disaster relief payments do not include:
   !
CAUTION
                                                                  Tax Forgiveness for People
    Payments for expenses otherwise paid for by insur­            Who Died
    ance or other reimbursements, or
                                                                  The IRS will forgive the federal income tax liabilities of de-
    Income replacement payments, such as payments of
                                                                  cedents who died as a result of wounds or injury sus-
    lost wages, lost business income, or unemployment
    compensation.                                                 tained in the Oklahoma City or September 11 attacks or
                                                                  from illnesses or diseases arising from wounds or injuries
                                                                  sustained in these attacks. The IRS will also forgive the
Death Benefits                                                    federal income tax liabilities of decedents who died as a
                                                                  result of illness incurred as a result of the anthrax attacks.
Payments received by an individual or the estate of a de-         Income tax is forgiven for these decedents whether they
cedent from the employer of an employee who died as a             were killed in an attack or died later as a result of an at-
result of the Oklahoma City or September 11 terrorist at-         tack or participating in rescue or recovery operations. Any
tacks, or as a result of the anthrax attacks, are not inclu-      forgiven tax liability owed to the IRS will not have to be
ded in income. Only the amount that exceeds the benefits          paid. Any forgiven tax liability that has already been paid
that would have been payable if the death had occurred            will be refunded if a claim is filed within the open refund
for a reason other than a terrorist or anthrax attack is ex-      period. (See Period for filing a claim for credit or refund,
cludable. However, the exclusion does apply to incidental         later.) To determine the amount of tax to be forgiven, read
death benefits paid under a qualified retirement plan even        Years Eligible for Tax Forgiveness first. Then read
if these amounts would have been payable if the death             Amount of Tax Forgiven.
had occurred for a reason other than a terrorist or anthrax
attack.                                                                   Decedents whose total tax forgiveness benefit for
                                                                   TIP    all eligible years is less than $10,000 are entitled
         If you included death benefits in income on a pre­               to $10,000 minimum relief. Even decedents who
 TIP     viously filed return and they are now excludable         were not required to file tax returns for the eligible tax
         under the above rule, file Form 1040X to amend           years are entitled to $10,000 minimum relief. See Mini-
that return. For information on the period for filing Form        mum Amount of Relief, later, under Amount of Tax For-
1040X, see Period for filing a claim for credit or refund,        given.
later, under Years Eligible for Tax Forgiveness.
                                                                  Years Eligible for Tax Forgiveness
Payments to Survivors of Public
Safety Officers                                                   The following paragraphs explain which years are eligible
                                                                  for tax forgiveness.
If you are a survivor of a public safety officer who died in
                                                                  September 11 attacks and anthrax attacks. For those
the line of duty, certain amounts you receive are not inclu-
                                                                  who died as a result of these attacks, income tax is for-
ded in income.
                                                                  given for 2000 and all later years up to and including the
Bureau of Justice Assistance payments. If you are a               year of death. However, the law allows the IRS to refund
surviving dependent of a public safety officer (law en-           taxes only for certain years. See Period for filing a claim
forcement officer or firefighter) who died in the line of duty,   for credit or refund below.
do not include in your income the death benefit paid to
                                                                  Oklahoma City attack. For those who died from this at-
you by the Bureau of Justice Assistance.
                                                                  tack, income tax is forgiven for 1994 and all later years up
Government plan annuity. If you receive a survivor an-            to and including the year of death. However, the law al-
nuity as the child or spouse (or former spouse) of a public       lows the IRS to refund taxes only for certain years. See
safety officer who was killed in the line of duty, you gener-     Period for filing a claim for credit or refund next.
ally do not have to include it in income. This exclusion ap-
                                                                  Period for filing a claim for credit or refund. Although
plies to the amount of the annuity based on the officer's
                                                                  income tax forgiveness applies back to 2000 for the Sep-
service as a public safety officer.
                                                                  tember 11 and anthrax attacks and to 1994 for the Okla-
   For this purpose, the term public safety officer in-           homa City attack, the law allows the IRS to refund taxes
cludes police and law enforcement officers, firefighters,         only for certain years.
and rescue squad and ambulance crews.                                To obtain a credit or refund for a year for which the de-
                                                                  cedent did not file an income tax return, you must file an
More information. For more information, see Publication           income tax return (Form 1040 or Form 1040NR) within 3
559.                                                              years after the due date of the return (including exten-
                                                                  sions) or within 2 years after the date the decedent paid
                                                                  the tax, whichever is later.



Page 4                                                                                 Publication 3920 (September 2014)
    To obtain a credit or refund on a previously filed income     Amount of Relief. The $10,000 is treated as a tax payment
tax return (an original return), you must file an amended         for 2012 and will be refunded if tax forgiveness is reques-
return (Form 1040X or amended Form 1041) within 3                 ted by April 18, 2016.
years (including extensions) from the time the return was
filed or within 2 years after the time the tax was paid,          Amount of Tax Forgiven
whichever is later. If an original return was filed, the
amount of the refund claimed on the amended return will           The IRS will forgive the decedent's income tax liability as
be limited to the amount of tax paid within the 3 years pre-      discussed earlier under Years Eligible for Tax Forgive­
ceding the date on which the amended return is filed.             ness. On a joint return, only the decedent's part of the joint
These rules reflect the statute of limitations for refunds,       income tax liability is eligible for forgiveness.
and are referred to throughout this publication as the open
refund period.                                                      To figure the tax to be forgiven, use the following work-
    If the original return was filed early (for example, on       sheets.
March 1 for a calendar year return), the return is consid-            Use Worksheet A for any eligible year the decedent
ered filed on the due date (generally April 15). However, if          filed a return as single, married filing separately, head
the decedent had an extension to file (for example, until             of household, or qualifying widow(er).
October 15) but filed the return earlier and the IRS re-
                                                                      Use Worksheet B for any eligible year the decedent
ceived it July 1, the return is considered filed on July 1.
                                                                      filed a joint return. Also see the illustrated Worksheet
   Note. The statute of limitations for refunds can be sus-           B near the end of this publication for a comprehensive
pended for certain people who live in a federally declared            example.
disaster area or are physically or mentally unable to man-                  Do not complete Worksheet A or B if the dece­
age their financial affairs. For details, see Publication 556.     TIP      dent was not required to file tax returns for the eli­
                                                                            gible tax years. Instead, complete Worksheet C
   Example 1. Paul, a U.S. citizen, died in August 2014
                                                                  and file a return for the decedent's last tax year. See Mini-
as a result of wounds he sustained as a result of the Sep-
                                                                  mum Amount of Relief, later.
tember 11 attacks. He had income tax liabilities of
$17,500 for 2011, $18,025 for 2012, and $7,000 for 2013.
Prior to his death, Paul filed his tax returns and paid his       Both spouses died. If both spouses died as a result of a
tax due on or before April 15 each year since the Septem-         terrorist attack and they filed a joint return for an eligible
ber 11 attacks. The total, $42,525, plus any income tax li-       tax year, fill out Worksheet B for each spouse for that
ability for 2014, is eligible for tax forgiveness. His personal   year. Do this to determine if each spouse qualifies for the
representative must request tax forgiveness by the follow-        minimum relief of $10,000 (discussed later under Mini­
ing dates to claim a refund of the income tax liabilities         mum Amount of Relief). If you are certain that neither
Paul paid for each tax year.                                      spouse's total forgiven tax liability for all eligible years is
                                                                  less than $10,000, skip Worksheet B. However, attach a
    2011 tax year – April 15, 2015.                               computation of the forgiven tax liability to the final income
                                                                  tax return or amended tax return for each eligible year.
    2012 tax year – April 18, 2016.
                                                                  The forgiven tax liability is the total tax shown on the joint
    2013 tax year – April 18, 2017.                               return minus the taxes listed in the instructions for line 4 of
                                                                  Worksheet B.
    2014 tax year – April 17, 2018.
                                                                  Residents of community property states. If the dece-
Although the personal representative may request income           dent was domiciled in a community property state and the
tax forgiveness after these dates, no refund can be paid          spouse reported half the community income on a separate
because 3 years will have passed from the date the origi-         return, the surviving spouse can get a refund of taxes paid
nal return was filed and no payments will have been made          on his or her share of the decedent's income for the eligi-
within the open refund period.                                    ble years. Also, all of the decedent's income taxes paid for
                                                                  the eligible years will be refunded to either the executor or
   Example 2. A child wounded in the September 11 at-
                                                                  administrator of the estate, or to the surviving spouse if
tacks died in 2012 as a result of those wounds and never
                                                                  there is no legal representative.
had any income tax liability. She qualifies for the minimum
relief of $10,000 as explained later under Minimum




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                         Page 5
Worksheet A. Figuring the Tax To Be Forgiven
                                                                                                           Keep for Your Records
                      (For Decedents Who Filed a Return as Single, Married Filing Separately, Head of Household, or
                      Qualifying Widow(er))



                                                                                            (A)        (B)         (C)          (D)
                                                                                           First     Second       Third       Fourth
                                                                                          Eligible   Eligible    Eligible     Eligible
                                                                                            Year       Year        Year         Year
 1   Enter the years eligible for tax forgiveness. . . . . . . . .                   1
 2   Enter the total tax from the decedent's income tax
     return. See Table 1, later, for the line number. . . . . . .                    2
 3   Enter the following taxes, if any, shown on the
     decedent's income tax return. (These taxes are not
     eligible for forgiveness.)
     a Self-employment tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3a
     b Unreported social security and Medicare tax from
       Forms 4137 and 8919. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3b
     c Tax on excess contributions to IRAs, Coverdell
       education savings accounts (ESAs), Archer
       MSAs, or health savings accounts (HSAs). . . . . . .                          3c
     d Tax on excess accumulation in qualified
       retirement plans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3d
     e Household employment taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3e
     f Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA
       tax on tips or group-term life insurance. . . . . . . . . .                   3f
     g Tax on golden parachute payments. . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3g
     h Health care: individual responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . .                 3h
     i Additional Medicare Tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            3i
     j Net Investment Income Tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              3j
     k Excise tax on insider stock compensation from an
       expatriated corporation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3k
 4   Add lines 3a through 3k. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
 5   Tax adjustment to be reported with tax return.
     Subtract line 4 from line 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
 6   Tax forgiveness benefit provided. Enter the
     amount from line 5 if filing your claim within 3 years
     from the due date of the return (including
     extensions). Otherwise, enter only the part of the tax
     from line 5 that is currently owed (not including
     interest and penalties) plus any payments made
     within the open refund period. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
Note. If the total of columns (A), (B), (C), and (D) of line 6 (including any amounts shown on line 16 of Worksheet B) is less
than $10,000, also complete Worksheet C.
    Attach the computation of the tax to be forgiven or a copy of this worksheet to the decedent's final income tax return or
    amended tax return (Form 1040X) for each year listed on line 1.
    If filing Form 1040X for an eligible year, enter the amount from line 5 above on Form 1040X in column B of the “Total tax”
    line as a decrease in tax. The IRS will determine the amount to be refunded.

Page 6                                                                                                  Publication 3920 (September 2014)
Worksheet B. Figuring the Tax To Be Forgiven
                                                                                                                        Keep for Your Records
                        (For Decedents Who Filed a Joint Return)



                                                                                                              (A)        (B)        (C)        (D)
                                                                                                             First     Second      Third      Fourth
                                                                                                            Eligible   Eligible   Eligible   Eligible
                                                                                                              Year       Year       Year       Year
  1 Enter the years eligible for forgiveness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
  2 Enter the decedent's taxable income. Figure taxable income
    as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2 and 6 in
    the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
  3 Enter the decedent's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in the
    Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               3
  4 Enter the total, if any, of the decedent's taxes not eligible for
    forgiveness. See Line 4 in the Worksheet B
    instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
  5 Subtract line 4 from line 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
  6 Enter the surviving spouse's taxable income. Figure taxable
    income as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2
    and 6 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6
  7 Enter the surviving spouse's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in
    the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 7
  8 Enter the total, if any, of the surviving spouse's taxes listed
    under Line 4 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             8
  9 Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
 10 Add lines 5 and 9. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
 11 Enter the total tax from the joint return. See Table 1, later,
    for the line number. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
 12 Add lines 4 and 8. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
 13 Subtract line 12 from line 11. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
 14 Divide line 5 by line 10. Enter the result as a decimal. . . . . . . 14
 15 Tax adjustment to be reported with tax return. Multiply
    line 13 by line 14 and enter the result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
 16 Tax forgiveness benefit provided. Enter the amount from
    line 15 if filing your claim within 3 years from the due date of
    the return (including extensions). Otherwise, enter only the
    part of the tax from line 15 that is currently owed (not
    including interest and penalties) plus any payments made
    within the open refund period. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Note. If the total of columns (A), (B), (C), and (D) of line 16 (including any amounts shown on line 6 of Worksheet A) is less
than $10,000, also complete Worksheet C.
    Attach the computation of the tax to be forgiven or a copy of this worksheet to the decedent's final income tax return or
    amended tax return (Form 1040X) for each year listed on line 1.
    If filing Form 1040X for an eligible year, enter the amount from line 15 above on Form 1040X in column B of the “Total
    tax” line as a decrease in tax. The IRS will determine the amount to be refunded.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                                                Page 7
Table 1. Total Tax Line on Decedent's Return
           Note: Use this table to find the total tax line on the decedent's income tax return. Enter the total tax on
           Worksheet A, line 2, or Worksheet B, line 11.

              Form                 2011                  2012                     2013                    2014
              1040                 Line 61               Line 61                  Line 61                 Line 63
              1040A                Line 35               Line 35                  Line 35                 File Form 1040
             1040EZ                Line 10               Line 10                  Line 10                 File Form 1040
             1040NR                Line 60               Line 60                  Line 60                 Line 61
           1040NR-EZ               Line 17               Line 17                  Line 17                 File Form 1040NR

Instructions for Worksheet B                                       return, allocate the credit shown on the joint return be-
                                                                   tween the spouses. Examples of credits generally not al-
Lines 2 and 6. Allocate income and deductions in the               lowed on a separate return are the child and dependent
same manner they would have been allocated if the spou-            care credit, credit for the elderly, adoption credit, educa-
ses had filed separate returns.                                    tion credits, and earned income credit.
   Income. Allocate wages and salaries to the spouse
                                                                   Line 4. Enter the total, if any, of the following taxes.
who performed the services and received the Form W-2.
Business and investment income (including capital gains)               Self-employment tax.
are generally allocated to the spouse who owned the busi-
ness or investment that produced the income. If both                   Unreported social security and Medicare tax from
spouses owned an interest in the business or investment,               Forms 4137 and 8919.
allocate the income in proportion to each spouse’s owner-              Tax on excess contributions to IRAs, Coverdell edu-
ship interest. Income from a jointly owned business or in-             cation savings accounts (ESAs), Archer MSAs, or
vestment should be allocated equally between the spou-                 health savings accounts (HSAs).
ses unless there is evidence that shows a different                    Tax on excess accumulation in qualified retirement
allocation is appropriate.                                             plans.
   If the income (such as taxable social security benefits)
is subject to special limits on a separate return, use the in-         Household employment taxes.
come shown on the joint return and allocate it between the
                                                                       Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA tax
spouses.
                                                                       on tips or group-term life insurance.
   Deductions. Allocate personal deductions (such as
                                                                       Tax on golden parachute payments.
itemized deductions for mortgage interest and taxes)
equally between the spouses unless there is evidence                   Health care: individual responsibility.
that shows a different allocation is appropriate. Allocate
deductions related to a business or investment according               Additional Medicare Tax.
to the same allocation rules discussed above that apply to
income.                                                                Net Investment Income Tax.
   If a deduction would not be allowed if separate returns             Excise tax on insider stock compensation from an ex-
were filed, use the deduction shown on the joint return                patriated corporation.
and allocate that amount between the spouses. A similar
rule applies to deductions (such as the IRA deduction)
that are subject to special limits on a separate return. Use
                                                                   Minimum Amount of Relief
the deductions shown on the joint return and allocate              The minimum amount of relief is $10,000. If the dece-
them between the spouses.                                          dent’s total tax forgiveness benefit for all eligible years is
                                                                   less than $10,000, the difference between $10,000 and
Lines 3 and 7. Figure the total tax as if a separate return
                                                                   the total tax forgiveness benefit provided will be treated as
had been filed. The total tax is the tax that would have
                                                                   a tax payment for the decedent's last tax year. The IRS
been entered on the tax return line shown in Table 1 if a
                                                                   will refund the difference if the claim is filed within the
separate return had been filed. When figuring the tax us-
                                                                   open refund period for the decedent’s last tax year as ex-
ing the Tax Table or Tax Computation Worksheet, use the
                                                                   plained earlier under Period for filing a claim for credit or
“Married filing separately” column in the Tax Table or Sec-
                                                                   refund. Use Worksheet C to figure the additional tax pay-
tion C of the Tax Computation Worksheet.
                                                                   ment. But first complete Worksheet A or B if the decedent
   When figuring the total tax, allocate credits and other         was required to file tax returns for any eligible tax years for
taxes, if any, in the same manner as they would have               which a tax liability is still owed to the IRS or for which the
been allocated if the spouses had filed separate returns. If       IRS will pay a refund of an amount already paid to the IRS.
a credit would not have been allowed on a separate

Page 8                                                                                   Publication 3920 (September 2014)
   Example 1. An individual who died in January 2014 as          Income received after date of death. Generally, in-
a result of wounds sustained in the September 11 attacks         come of the decedent received after the date of death
had an income tax liability of -0- for 2011, 2012, and 2013,     must be reported on Form 1041 if the estate has gross in-
and $6,400 for 2014. The personal representative appoin-         come for the tax year of $600 or more. Examples are the
ted after his death claims forgiveness for the $6,400 with       final paycheck or dividends on stock owned by the dece-
the IRS in 2015. The IRS will forgive the income tax liabili-    dent. However, this income is exempt from income tax
ties for 2014 and treat the difference between $10,000           and is not included on Form 1041 if it is received:
and the $6,400 benefit provided ($3,600) as a tax pay-              After the date of the decedent's death, and
ment for 2014.
                                                                    Before the end of the decedent's tax year (determined
   Example 2. An individual who died in May 2014 as a               without regard to death).
result of wounds sustained in the September 11 attacks
had an income tax liability of -0- for 2011, 2012, and 2013,       Nonqualifying income. The following income is not
and $6,400 for 2014. The individual also had an outstand-        exempt from tax. The tax on it is not eligible for forgive-
ing income tax liability at the time of death of $3,000 for      ness.
2006, not counting interest or penalties. The personal rep-         Deferred compensation that would have been payable
resentative appointed after death claims forgiveness for            if the death had occurred because of an event other
the $3,000 and $6,400 ($9,400) with the IRS in 2015. The            than these attacks.
IRS will forgive the income tax liabilities for 2006 and 2014
and treat the difference between $10,000 and the $9,400             Amounts that would not have been payable but for an
benefit provided ($600) as a tax payment for 2014.                  action taken after September 11, 2001.
                                                                 The following are examples of nonqualifying income.
   Example 3. A child who died in August 2014 as a re-
sult of wounds sustained in the September 11 attacks had            Amounts payable from a qualified retirement plan or
no (-0-) income tax liability for 2011, 2012, 2013, or 2014.        IRA to the beneficiary or estate of the decedent.
The IRS will treat $10,000 as a tax payment for 2014 and            Amounts payable only as death or survivor's benefits
will refund $10,000 if a claim is filed within the open refund      from pre-existing arrangements that would have been
period.                                                             paid if the death had occurred for another reason.
   Example 4. An individual who died in August 2014 as              Income received as a result of adjustments made by
a result of wounds sustained in the September 11 attacks            the decedent's employer to a plan or arrangement to
had income tax liabilities of $17,500 for 2011, $18,025 for         accelerate the vesting of restricted property or the
2012, and $7,000 for 2013. Prior to his death, he filed his         payment of nonqualified deferred compensation after
tax returns and paid his tax due on or before April 15 each         the date of the attack.
year since the September 11 attacks. The personal repre-            Interest on savings bonds cashed by the beneficiary
sentative appointed after his death filed no income tax re-         of the decedent.
turns or claims for him until July 2017 when she filed the
decedent’s 2014 income tax return showing $4,800 in tax                   If you are responsible for the estate of a dece­
liability. The IRS will forgive the income tax liabilities for    TIP     dent, see Publication 559. Publication 559 dis­
2014. Because the open refund period for all tax years                    cusses how to complete and file federal income
prior to 2014 expired on April 18, 2017, the IRS will treat      tax returns and explains your responsibility to pay any
the difference between $10,000 and the $4,800 benefit            taxes due.
provided ($5,200) as a tax payment for 2014.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                   Page 9
Worksheet C. Amount Treated as Tax Payment for
Decedent's Last Tax Year                                                                                                                           Keep for Your Records
Caution: The decedent is entitled to minimum relief of $10,000. Complete this worksheet only if the total tax forgiveness
benefit provided for all eligible years is less than $10,000.

    1 Minimum relief amount.
      Note: Before completing lines 2–9, see Instructions for lines 2–9 of Worksheet C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                 1 $10,000
    2 Enter the taxable income from Form 1041, line 22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                        2
    3 Enter the distribution deduction from Form 1041, line 18. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            3
    4 Add lines 2 and 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
    5 Enter exempt income received after death minus expenses allocable to exempt
      income. (See Income received after date of death, earlier.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                              5
    6 Add lines 4 and 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
    7 Figure the tax on line 6 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            7
    8 Figure the tax on line 4 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            8
    9 Tax on exempt income. Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    9
  10 Enter the total of columns (A)–(D) from line 6 of Worksheet A or line 16 of
     Worksheet B. If the decedent was not required to file tax returns for the eligible tax
     years, enter -0-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
  11 Add lines 9 and 10. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  12 Additional payment allowed. If line 11 is $10,000 or more, enter -0- and stop here. No additional
     amount is allowed as a tax payment. Otherwise, subtract line 11 from line 1 and enter the
     result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Note. The amount on line 12 is allowed as a tax payment for the decedent's last tax year.
   Attach the computation of the additional payment allowed or a copy of this worksheet to the original or amended
   income tax return for the decedent's last tax year. If filing Form 1040, include the amount from line 12 above on the
   “Credits from Form” line in the “Payments” section of Form 1040, page 2. Write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” and the
   amount to the right of the entry space. Also indicate whether a Form 1041 is being filed for the decedent's estate.
   If filing Form 1040X, include the amount from line 12 above on Form 1040X on the “Refundable credits from” line,
   columns (B) and (C). Check the box next to “other (specify)” and write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” on the blank line.

    Instructions for lines 2–9 of Worksheet C. The tax                                                       You have to use lines 2–9 (or the alternative computa-
that would have been payable on the exempt income (dis-                                                  tion) to figure the tax that would have been payable even if
cussed earlier) must be considered when determining                                                      Form 1041 was not required to be filed. Use Form 1041 to
whether a decedent is entitled to the $10,000 minimum re-                                                figure what the taxable income would be without including
lief. To figure the tax that would have been payable, you                                                the exempt income. Then enter that taxable income (even
can use lines 2 through 9 of Worksheet C. Or, if special                                                 if a negative number) on line 2 of Worksheet C (or line 1 of
requirements are met, you can use the alternative compu-                                                 Worksheet D. Alternative Computation of Tax on Exempt
tation instead. See Alternative computation, later.                                                      Income (Line 9 of Worksheet C)).




Page 10                                                                                                                                    Publication 3920 (September 2014)
Worksheet D. Alternative Computation of Tax on Exempt
             Income (Line 9 of Worksheet C)                                                                                               Keep for Your Records
   1    Enter the taxable income from Form 1041, line 22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                1
   2    Enter exempt income received after death minus expenses allocable to exempt
        income. (See Income received after date of death, earlier.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                      2
   3    Add lines 1 and 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4    Figure the tax on line 3 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    4
   5    Figure the tax on line 1 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    5
   6    Estate's tax on exempt income. Subtract line 5 from line 4. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          6
   7    Beneficiaries' tax on exempt income. Figure the total tax that would have been
        payable by all beneficiaries. Do this by including in each beneficiary's gross income
        the exempt income received from the decedent's estate and refiguring the income
        tax. Add the amounts by which each beneficiary's income tax is increased. . . . . . . . .                                                    7
   8    Add lines 6 and 7. Enter this amount on line 9 of Worksheet C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                         8

   Alternative computation. Instead of using lines 2–8                                            2011, $18,025 for 2012, $7,000 for 2013, and $4,800 for
of Worksheet C to figure the tax on exempt income (line 9                                         2014. The total, $47,325, is eligible for tax forgiveness.
of Worksheet C), you may be able to use Worksheet D.                                              However, he paid only $38,100 of that amount. The IRS
You can use Worksheet D to figure the tax on the exempt                                           will refund no more than the $38,100 paid.
income payable by the estate and its beneficiaries only if
both of the following requirements are met.                                                          Example 2. A child who died in 2014 as a result of
                                                                                                  wounds sustained in the September 11 attacks never had
 1. The estate claimed an income distribution deduction                                           any income tax liability. The child qualifies for the mini-
    on Form 1041, line 18.                                                                        mum relief of $10,000. The IRS will treat $10,000 as a tax
 2. Each beneficiary submits the information necessary                                            payment for 2014 and will refund $10,000 if a claim is filed
    to refigure the income tax payable on the exempt in-                                          within the open refund period.
    come received from the decedent's estate.                                                                   The law allows the IRS to refund taxes only for
If requirement (2) is met but requirement (1) is not, you                                             !         certain years. See Years Eligible for Tax Forgive-
can still use Worksheet D if:                                                                     CAUTION       ness, earlier.
    Form 1041 was not required because exempt income
    was received, and                                                                             How To Claim Tax Forgiveness
    The estate would have claimed an income distribution
    deduction if the exempt income were taxable.                                                  Use the following procedures to claim income tax forgive-
                                                                                                  ness.
If you use this alternative computation, skip lines 2–8 of
Worksheet C and enter the amount from line 8 of Work-
sheet D on line 9 of Worksheet C. Complete the rest of
                                                                                                  Which Form To Use
Worksheet C to determine the additional payment al-                                               The form you use depends on whether an income tax re-
lowed.                                                                                            turn for the eligible year was already filed for the dece-
                                                                                                  dent.
Refund of Taxes Paid
                                                                                                  Return required but not yet filed. File a paper Form
The IRS will refund the following amounts.                                                        1040 if the decedent was a U.S. citizen or resident. File a
                                                                                                  paper Form 1040NR if the decedent was a nonresident
 1. Forgiven income tax liabilities that have been paid                                           alien. A nonresident alien is someone who is not a U.S.
    during the open refund period for the decedent’s last                                         citizen or resident.
    tax year. See Period for filing a claim for credit or re­
    fund, earlier.                                                                                Return required and already filed. File a separate pa-
 2. The excess of $10,000 over the total tax forgiveness                                          per Form 1040X for each year you are claiming tax relief.
    benefit provided for all eligible years if a claim is filed
                                                                                                  Return not required and not filed. File a paper Form
    within the open refund period for the decedent’s last
                                                                                                  1040 only for the year of death if the decedent was a U.S.
    tax year. See Minimum Amount of Relief, earlier.
                                                                                                  citizen or resident. File a paper Form 1040NR if the dece-
   Example 1. A first responder who died in August 2014                                           dent was a nonresident alien.
from a cancer on the List of World Trade Center
                                                                                                  Return not required but already filed. File a paper
(WTC)-Related Health Conditions covered in the WTC
                                                                                                  Form 1040X only for the year of death.
Health Program had an income tax liability of $17,500 for

Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                                                            Page 11
How to complete the returns. Fill out Form 1040 or                 Form 1310. You must send Form 1310 with all returns
1040NR according to its instructions but do not reduce             and claims for refund, unless either of the following ap-
the decedent's tax liability by any taxes that will be for-        plies.
given. Attach to each return a computation of the income
                                                                       You are a surviving spouse filing an original or amen-
tax to be forgiven or a copy of Worksheet A or B. If filing
                                                                       ded joint return with the decedent.
Form 1040 or Form 1040NR, also attach any Forms W-2.
If the total tax forgiveness benefit provided for all eligible         You are a personal representative filing an original
years is less than $10,000, attach to the decedent's final             Form 1040 or Form 1040NR for the decedent and a
return a computation of the additional tax payment al-                 court certificate showing your appointment is attached
lowed or a copy of Worksheet C.                                        to the return.
                                                                   A personal representative is an executor or administrator
  Also, please write one of the following across the top of        of a decedent's estate, as certified or appointed by the
page 1 of each return.                                             court. A copy of the decedent's will cannot be accepted as
    KITA—Oklahoma City                                             evidence that you are the personal representative.

    KITA—9/11                                                              If you have proof of death but do not have
                                                                    TIP    enough tax information to file a timely claim for a
    KITA—Anthrax                                                           refund, file Form 1040X with Form 1310. Include
                                                                   a statement saying an amended return will be filed as
“KITA” means “killed in terrorist attack.”                         soon as the necessary tax information is available.
    Need a copy of a previously filed return? You will
find it easier to prepare Form 1040X if you have a copy of         Where To File
the decedent's previously filed tax return. If you need a
copy, use Form 4506. The IRS will provide a free copy of           The IRS has set up a special office for processing returns
the tax return if you write “DISASTER” in the top margin of        and claims for tax forgiveness.
Form 4506. Attach Letters Testamentary or other evi-
dence to establish that you are authorized to act for the            File these returns and claims at the following address.
decedent's estate. Send Form 4506 to the address shown
in the form instructions.                                              Internal Revenue Service
                                                                       333 W. Pershing, Stop 6503, P5
Taxpayer identification number. A taxpayer identifica-                 Kansas City, MO 64108
tion number must be furnished on the decedent's returns.
This is usually the decedent's social security number                        Do not send these returns or claims to any of the
(SSN). However, a nonresident alien who is not eligible to           !       addresses shown in the tax form instructions.
get an SSN should have an individual taxpayer identifica-          CAUTION

tion number (ITIN). If the decedent was a nonresident
alien, had neither an SSN nor an ITIN, and was not re-             Private delivery services. Instead of using U.S. mail,
quired to file a U.S. income tax return for any tax year, do       you can use certain private delivery services designated
not apply for an ITIN. You may claim a refund by filing            by the IRS to meet the “timely mailing as timely filing/
Form 1040NR without an SSN or ITIN.                                paying” rule for tax returns and payments. These private
                                                                   delivery services include only the following.
Necessary Documents                                                    DHL Express (DHL): DHL “Same Day” Service.

Please attach the following documents to the return or                 Federal Express (FedEx): FedEx Priority Overnight,
amended return.                                                        FedEx Standard Overnight, FedEx 2Day, FedEx Inter-
                                                                       national Priority, and FedEx International First.
Proof of death. Attach a copy of the death certificate.
Also attach proof that the death was caused by wounds or               United Parcel Service (UPS): UPS Next Day Air, UPS
injury sustained in the Oklahoma City or September 11 at-              Next Day Air Saver, UPS 2nd Day Air, UPS 2nd Day
tacks or their rescue or recovery operations or by an ill-             Air A.M., UPS Worldwide Express Plus, and UPS
ness or disease arising from wounds or injury sustained                Worldwide Express.
during one of these attacks or their rescue or recovery op-        The private delivery service can tell you how to get written
erations or by an illness incurred as a result of the anthrax      proof of the mailing date.
attacks. You may show the cause of death from the death               For updates to the list of designated private delivery
certificate (if stated) or by attaching a letter from the treat-   services, go to IRS.gov and enter “private delivery serv-
ing physician, medical examiner, or hospital that explains         ice” in the search box.
the cause of death. If the Department of Defense issued
DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty, you can attach that
form instead of the death certificate.




Page 12                                                                                Publication 3920 (September 2014)
                                                               The excise tax is figured on the excess of the undiscoun-
Estate Tax Reduction                                           ted amount of the payments being acquired over the total
                                                               amount actually paid to acquire them. However, this tax
                                                               will not apply to transactions entered into from February
The federal estate tax is reduced for taxable estates of in-   22, 2002, to July 1, 2002, if certain requirements are met.
dividuals who died as a result of the Oklahoma City at-        For information about these requirements, see Internal
tack, the September 11 attacks, and the anthrax attacks.       Revenue Code section 5891.
The estate tax is figured using the rate schedule on
page 25 of the November 2001 revision of the Instructions
for Form 706. The estate tax is reduced by credits against
the estate tax, including the unified credit and the state     Illustrated Worksheets B and C
death tax credit. These credits may reduce or eliminate
the estate tax due.                                            Sarah's husband Clifton died in June 2014 as a result of
                                                               injuries sustained in the September 11 attack on the
Recovery from the September 11th Victim Compen­                World Trade Center. They filed joint returns and paid the
sation Fund. The value of claims for a decedent's pain         tax due on or before April 15 each year since the Septem-
and suffering is normally included in the gross estate.        ber 11 attacks until Clifton’s death. Sarah chose to file a
However, if the estate chooses to seek recovery from this      joint return as a surviving spouse for 2014. The returns for
fund, the IRS has determined that, in view of the unique       2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 showed the following in-
circumstances of this situation and the high likelihood that   come, deductions, and tax liabilities.
such claims will be valued at a nominal or zero amount,
the claims will be valued at zero for estate tax purposes.                                             2011     2012      2013       2014
Thus, there are no federal estate tax consequences if an        Wages (Sarah) . . . . . . . . $40,000           $40,500 $40,500     $41,000
estate or beneficiary receives a recovery from this fund.       Net profit from Schedule C,
                                                                Profit or Loss From
Which estates must file a return. For decedents dying           Business (Clifton) . . . . . .      25,000       25,200   26,000     26,000
in 2014, Form 706 must be filed by the executor for the         Interest income (joint
estate of every U.S. citizen or resident whose gross es-        account) . . . . . . . . . . . .        500        550       650        650
tate, plus adjusted taxable gifts and specific exemption, is    Deductible portion of
more than $5,340,000; or whose executor elects to trans-        self-employment tax
fer the Deceased Spousal Unused Exclusion (DSUE)                (Clifton) . . . . . . . . . . . . . (1,766)     (1,780)   (1,837)    (1,837)
amount to the surviving spouse, regardless of the size of
the decedent's gross estate. Form 706 must be filed within      Standard deduction . . . . . (11,600) (11,900) (12,200)             (12,400)
                                                                Personal exemptions (2) . . (7,400) (7,600) (7,800)                  (7,900)
9 months after the date of decedent's death unless you re-
ceive an extension of time to file. Use Form 4768, Applica-     Taxable income . . . . . .            $44,734 $44,970 $45,313       $45,513
tion for Extension of Time To File a Return and/or Pay          Joint income tax liability . . .       $5,859    $5,876   $5,906     $5,921
U.S. Estate (and Generation-Skipping Transfer) Taxes, to        Plus: Self-employment tax
apply for an extension.                                         (Clifton) . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3,071    3,095    3,674       3,674
                                                                Total tax liability . . . . . .        $8,930   $8,971    $9,580     $9,595
Where to file. Returns on which the special rate sched-
ule on page 25 of the November 2001 revision of the In-           After Clifton died, his estate received income of $4,000.
structions for Form 706 is used should be sent to the fol-     Of that amount, $1,000 is net profit from Schedule C re-
lowing address.                                                ceived before the end of 2014. This net profit is exempt
    Department of the Treasury                                 from income tax as explained earlier under Income re­
    Internal Revenue Service Center                            ceived after date of death. Sarah files Form 1041 because
    Cincinnati, OH 45999                                       the gross income of the estate for the tax year ($3,000) is
                                                               $600 or more.
More information. For more information on the federal             To determine how much of Clifton's tax liability for
estate tax, see the Instructions for Form 706.                 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 is to be forgiven, Sarah com-
                                                               pletes Worksheet B. She also completes Worksheet C be-
                                                               cause the forgiven tax liabilities for 2011, 2012, 2013, and
Structured Settlement                                          2014 (line 16 of Worksheet B) total less than $10,000.

Factoring Transactions                                            To claim tax relief for 2011, 2012, and 2013, Sarah files
                                                               Form 1040X and attaches a copy of Worksheet B. To
                                                               claim tax relief for 2014, she files Form 1040 and attaches
A person who acquires payment rights in a structured set-      copies of Worksheets B and C.
tlement arrangement after February 21, 2002, may be
subject to a 40% excise tax unless the transfer of the pay-
ment rights was approved in advance in a qualified order.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                                   Page 13
Worksheet B Illustrated. Figuring the Tax To Be Forgiven                                                                        Keep for Your Records


                                            (For Decedents Who Filed a Joint Return)



                                                                                                          (A)          (B)          (C)           (D)
                                                                                                         First       Second        Third        Fourth
                                                                                                        Eligible     Eligible     Eligible     Eligible
                                                                                                          Year         Year        Year          Year
  1 Enter the years eligible for forgiveness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    1         2011         2012         2013          2014
  2 Enter the decedent's taxable income. Figure taxable
    income as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2
    and 6 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     2      $13,984      $13,945      $14,488       $14,338
  3 Enter the decedent's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in the
    Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            3        4,742        4,749        5,399          5,369
  4 Enter the total, if any, of the decedent's taxes not eligible for
    forgiveness. See Line 4 in the Worksheet B
    instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4       3,071        3,095        3,674          3,674
  5 Subtract line 4 from line 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5        1,671        1,654        1,725          1,695
  6 Enter the surviving spouse's taxable income. Figure taxable
    income as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2
    and 6 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6                           30,750       31,025       30,825        31,175
  7 Enter the surviving spouse's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in
    the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7        4,191        4,219        4,178          4,223
  8 Enter the total, if any, of the surviving spouse's taxes listed
    under Line 4 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . .                          8           -0-          -0-          -0-              -0-
  9 Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9        4,191        4,219        4,178          4,223
 10 Add lines 5 and 9. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10           5,862        5,873        5,903          5,918
 11 Enter the total tax from the joint return. See Table 1,
    earlier, for the line number. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11                8,930        8,971        9,580          9,595
 12 Add lines 4 and 8. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12           3,071        3,095        3,674          3,674
 13 Subtract line 12 from line 11. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13                   5,859        5,876        5,906          5,921
 14 Divide line 5 by line 10. Enter the result as a decimal. . . . . . 14                                     .285         .282         .292          .286
 15 Tax adjustment to be reported with tax return. Multiply
    line 13 by line 14 and enter the result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15                      $1,670       $1,657       $1,725        $1,693
 16 Tax forgiveness benefit provided. Enter the amount from
    line 15 if filing your claim within 3 years from the due date of
    the return (including extensions). Otherwise, enter only the
    part of the tax from line 15 that is currently owed (not
    including interest and penalties) plus any payments made
    within the open refund period. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16                    $1,670       $1,657       $1,725        $1,693
Note. If the total of columns (A), (B), (C), and (D) of line 16 (including any amounts shown on line 6 of Worksheet A) is less
than $10,000, also complete Worksheet C.
    Attach the computation of the tax to be forgiven or a copy of this worksheet to the decedent's final income tax return or
    amended tax return (Form 1040X) for each year listed on line 1.
    If filing Form 1040X for an eligible year, enter the amount from line 15 above on Form 1040X in column B of the “Total
    tax” line as a decrease in tax. The IRS will determine the amount to be refunded.




Page 14                                                                                                              Publication 3920 (September 2014)
Worksheet C Illustrated. Amount Treated as Tax Payment for
                         Decedent's Last Tax Year                                                                                               Keep for Your Records
Caution: The decedent is entitled to minimum relief of $10,000. Complete this worksheet only if the total tax forgiveness
benefit provided for all eligible years is less than $10,000.

    1 Minimum relief amount.
      Note: Before completing lines 2–9, see Instructions for lines 2–9 of Worksheet C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1                                                                 $10,000
    2 Enter the taxable income from Form 1041, line 22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2,400
    3 Enter the distribution deduction from Form 1041, line 18. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          3                 -0-
    4 Add lines 2 and 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4            2,400
    5 Enter exempt income received after death minus expenses allocable to exempt
      income. (See Income received after date of death, earlier.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            5            1,000
    6 Add lines 4 and 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6            3,400
    7 Figure the tax on line 6 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          7               600
    8 Figure the tax on line 4 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                          8               360
   9 Tax on exempt income. Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9                                                        240
  10 Enter the total of columns (A)–(D) from line 6 of Worksheet A or line 16 of
     Worksheet B. If the decedent was not required to file tax returns for the eligible tax
     years, enter -0-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10                 6,745
  11 Add lines 9 and 10. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11            $6,985
  12 Additional payment allowed. If line 11 is $10,000 or more, enter -0- and stop here. No
     additional amount is allowed as a tax payment. Otherwise, subtract line 11 from line 1 and enter
     the result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12    $3,015
Note. The amount on line 12 is allowed as a tax payment for the decedent's last tax year.
   Attach the computation of the additional payment allowed or a copy of this worksheet to the original or amended
   income tax return for the decedent's last tax year. If filing Form 1040, include the amount from line 12 above on the
   “Credits from Form” line in the “Payments” section of Form 1040, page 2. Write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” and the
   amount to the right of the entry space. Also indicate whether a Form 1041 is being filed for the decedent's estate.
   If filing Form 1040X, include the amount from line 12 above on Form 1040X on the “Refundable credits from” line,
   columns (B) and (C). Check the box next to “other (specify)” and write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” on the blank line.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                                                                                      Page 15
Additional Worksheets
The following additional worksheets are provided for your
convenience.



Worksheet A. Figuring the Tax To Be Forgiven                                                                             Keep for Your Records
  (For Decedents Who Filed a Return as Single, Married Filing Separately, Head of Household, or Qualifying
Widow(er))
                                                                                                     (A)        (B)             (C)         (D)
                                                                                                    First     Second           Third      Fourth
                                                                                                   Eligible   Eligible        Eligible   Eligible
                                                                                                     Year       Year            Year       Year
 1   Enter the years eligible for tax forgiveness. . . . . . . . . . .                        1
 2   Enter the total tax from the decedent's income tax
     return. See Table 1, earlier, for the line number. . . . . . .                           2
 3   Enter the following taxes, if any, shown on the
     decedent's income tax return. (These taxes are not
     eligible for forgiveness.)
     a Self-employment tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               3a
     b Unreported social security and Medicare tax from
       Forms 4137 and 8919. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3b
     c Tax on excess contributions to IRAs, Coverdell
       education savings accounts (ESAs), Archer MSAs,
       or health savings accounts (HSAs). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         3c
     d Tax on excess accumulation in qualified retirement
       plans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3d
     e Household employment taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        3e
     f Uncollected social security and Medicare or RRTA
       tax on tips or group-term life insurance. . . . . . . . . . . .                        3f
     g Tax on golden parachute payments. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            3g
     h Health care: individual responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      3h
     i Additional Medicare Tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3i
     j Net Investment Income Tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3j
     k Excise tax on insider stock compensation from an
       expatriated corporation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               3k
 4   Add lines 3a through 3k. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
 5   Tax adjustment to be reported with tax return.
     Subtract line 4 from line 2. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
 6   Tax forgiveness benefit provided. Enter the amount
     from line 5 if filing your claim within 3 years from the due
     date of the return (including extensions). Otherwise,
     enter only the part of the tax from line 5 that is currently
     owed (not including interest and penalties) plus any
     payments made within the open refund period. . . . . . . .                               6
Note. If the total of columns (A), (B), (C), and (D) of line 6 (including any amounts shown on line 16 of Worksheet
B) is less than $10,000, also complete Worksheet C.
     Attach the computation of the tax to be forgiven or a copy of this worksheet to the decedent's final income tax
     return or amended tax return (Form 1040X) for each year listed on line 1.
     If filing Form 1040X for an eligible year, enter the amount from line 5 above on Form 1040X in column B of the
     “Total tax” line as a decrease in tax. The IRS will determine the amount to be refunded.


Page 16                                                                                                          Publication 3920 (September 2014)
Worksheet B. Figuring the Tax To Be Forgiven
                                                                                                                        Keep for Your Records
                        (For Decedents Who Filed a Joint Return)



                                                                                                              (A)        (B)        (C)        (D)
                                                                                                             First     Second      Third     Fourth
                                                                                                            Eligible   Eligible   Eligible   Eligible
                                                                                                              Year       Year      Year        Year
  1 Enter the years eligible for forgiveness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
  2 Enter the decedent's taxable income. Figure taxable income
    as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2 and 6 in
    the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
  3 Enter the decedent's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in the
    Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               3
  4 Enter the total, if any, of the decedent's taxes not eligible for
    forgiveness. See Line 4 in the Worksheet B
    instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
  5 Subtract line 4 from line 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
  6 Enter the surviving spouse's taxable income. Figure taxable
    income as if a separate return had been filed. See Lines 2
    and 6 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6
  7 Enter the surviving spouse's total tax. See Lines 3 and 7 in
    the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 7
  8 Enter the total, if any, of the surviving spouse's taxes listed
    under Line 4 in the Worksheet B instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             8
  9 Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
 10 Add lines 5 and 9. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
 11 Enter the total tax from the joint return. See Table 1, earlier,
    for the line number. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
 12 Add lines 4 and 8. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
 13 Subtract line 12 from line 11. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
 14 Divide line 5 by line 10. Enter the result as a decimal. . . . . . . 14
 15 Tax adjustment to be reported with tax return. Multiply
    line 13 by line 14 and enter the result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
 16 Tax forgiveness benefit provided. Enter the amount from
    line 15 if filing your claim within 3 years from the due date of
    the return (including extensions). Otherwise, enter only the
    part of the tax from line 15 that is currently owed (not
    including interest and penalties) plus any payments made
    within the open refund period. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Note. If the total of columns (A), (B), (C), and (D) of line 16 (including any amounts shown on line 6 of Worksheet A) is less
than $10,000, also complete Worksheet C.
    Attach the computation of the tax to be forgiven or a copy of this worksheet to the decedent's final income tax return or
    amended tax return (Form 1040X) for each year listed on line 1.
    If filing Form 1040X for an eligible year, enter the amount from line 15 above on Form 1040X in column B of the “Total
    tax” line as a decrease in tax. The IRS will determine the amount to be refunded.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                                              Page 17
Worksheet C. Amount Treated as Tax Payment for
             Decedent's Last Tax Year                                                                                                              Keep for Your Records
Caution: The decedent is entitled to minimum relief of $10,000. Complete this worksheet only if the total tax forgiveness
benefit provided for all eligible years is less than $10,000.

    1 Minimum relief amount.
      Note: Before completing lines 2–9, see Instructions for lines 2–9 of Worksheet C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                 1 $10,000
    2 Enter the taxable income from Form 1041, line 22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                        2
    3 Enter the distribution deduction from Form 1041, line 18. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            3
    4 Add lines 2 and 3. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
    5 Enter exempt income received after death minus expenses allocable to exempt
      income. (See Income received after date of death, earlier.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                              5
    6 Add lines 4 and 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
    7 Figure the tax on line 6 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            7
    8 Figure the tax on line 4 using Form 1041, Schedule G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                            8
    9 Tax on exempt income. Subtract line 8 from line 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    9
  10 Enter the total of columns (A)–(D) from line 6 of Worksheet A or line 16 of
     Worksheet B. If the decedent was not required to file tax returns for the eligible tax
     years, enter -0-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
  11 Add lines 9 and 10. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  12 Additional payment allowed. If line 11 is $10,000 or more, enter -0- and stop here. No additional
     amount is allowed as a tax payment. Otherwise, subtract line 11 from line 1 and enter the
     result. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Note. The amount on line 12 is allowed as a tax payment for the decedent's last tax year.
   Attach the computation of the additional payment allowed or a copy of this worksheet to the original or amended
   income tax return for the decedent's last tax year. If filing Form 1040, include the amount from line 12 above on the
   “Credits from Form” line in the “Payments” section of Form 1040, page 2. Write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” and the
   amount to the right of the entry space. Also indicate whether a Form 1041 is being filed for the decedent's estate.
   If filing Form 1040X, include the amount from line 12 above on Form 1040X on the “Refundable credits from” line,
   columns (B) and (C). Check the box next to “other (specify)” and write “Sec. 692(d)(2) Payment” on the blank line.




Page 18                                                                                                                                    Publication 3920 (September 2014)
                                                                federal tax news, including information about tax law
How To Get Tax Help                                             changes and important IRS programs.
                                                                Check the status of your 2014 refund with the Where's
Special IRS assistance. The IRS is providing special            My Refund? application on IRS.gov or download the
help for those affected by the terrorist attacks, as well as    IRS2Go app and select the Refund Status option. The
survivors and personal representatives of the victims. We       IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than
have set up a special toll-free number for people who may       21 days. Using these applications, you can start
have trouble filing or paying their taxes because they were     checking on the status of your return within 24 hours
affected by the terrorist attacks, or who have other tax is-    after we receive your e-filed return or 4 weeks after
sues related to the attacks.                                    you mail a paper return. You will also be given a per-
                                                                sonalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes
    Call 1­866­562­5227                                         your tax return and approves your refund. The IRS up-
    Monday through Friday                                       dates Where's My Refund? every 24 hours, usually
    In English–7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time                      overnight, so you only need to check once a day.
    In Spanish–7 a.m. to 7 p.m. local time
                                                                Use the Interactive Tax Assistant (ITA) to research
                                                                your tax questions. No need to wait on the phone or
   The IRS web site at www.irs.gov has notices and other        stand in line. The ITA is available 24 hours a day, 7
tax relief information. Check it periodically for any new       days a week, and provides you with a variety of tax in-
guidance or to see if Congress has enacted new legisla-         formation related to general filing topics, deductions,
tion.                                                           credits, and income. When you reach the response
   For current information on federally declared disaster       screen, you can print the entire interview and the final
areas, check the Federal Emergency Management                   response for your records. New subject areas are
Agency Web site at www.fema.gov.                                added on a regular basis.
   Whether it's help with a tax issue, preparing your tax re-   Answers not provided through ITA may be found in
turn or a need for a free publication or form, get the help     Tax Trails, one of the Tax Topics on IRS.gov which
you need the way you want it: online, use a smart phone,        contain general individual and business tax informa-
call or walk in to an IRS office or volunteer site near you.    tion or by searching the IRS Tax Map, which includes
                                                                an international subject index. You can use the IRS
Free help with your tax return. You can get free help           Tax Map, to search publications and instructions by
preparing your return nationwide from IRS-certified volun-      topic or keyword. The IRS Tax Map integrates forms
teers. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) pro-          and publications into one research tool and provides
gram helps low-to-moderate income, elderly, people with         single-point access to tax law information by subject.
disabilities, and limited English proficient taxpayers. The     When the user searches the IRS Tax Map, they will be
Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program helps tax-         provided with links to related content in existing IRS
payers age 60 and older with their tax returns. Most VITA       publications, forms and instructions, questions and
and TCE sites offer free electronic filing and all volunteers   answers, and Tax Topics.
will let you know about credits and deductions you may be       You can immediately view and print for free all 5 types
entitled to claim. In addition, some VITA and TCE sites         of individual federal tax transcripts (tax returns, tax ac-
provide taxpayers the opportunity to prepare their own re-      count, record of account, wage and income state-
turn with help from an IRS-certified volunteer. To find the     ment, and certification of non-filing) using Get Tran­
nearest VITA or TCE site, you can use the VITA Locator          script. You can also ask the IRS to mail a return or an
Tool on IRS.gov, download the IRS2Go app, or call               account transcript to you. Only the mail option is avail-
1-800-906-9887.                                                 able by choosing the Tax Records option on the
   As part of the TCE program, AARP offers the Tax-Aide         IRS2Go app by selecting Mail Transcript on IRS.gov
counseling program. To find the nearest AARP Tax-Aide           or by calling 1-800-908-9946. Tax return and tax ac-
site, visit AARP's website at www.aarp.org/money/taxaide        count transcripts are generally available for the current
or call 1-888-227-7669. For more information on these           year and the past three years.
programs, go to IRS.gov and enter “VITA” in the search
box.                                                            Determine if you are eligible for the EITC and estimate
                                                                the amount of the credit with the Earned Income Tax
Internet. IRS.gov and IRS2Go are ready when you                 Credit (EITC) Assistant.
are —24 hours a day, 7 days a week.                             Visit Understanding Your IRS Notice or Letter to get
    Download the free IRS2Go app from the iTunes app            answers to questions about a notice or letter you re-
    store or from Google Play. Use it to check your refund      ceived from the IRS.
    status, order transcripts of your tax returns or tax ac-    If you received the First Time Homebuyer Credit, you
    count, watch the IRS YouTube channel, get IRS news          can use the First Time Homebuyer Credit Account
    as soon as it's released to the public, subscribe to fil-   Look­up tool for information on your repayments and
    ing season updates or daily tax tips, and follow the        account balance.
    IRS Twitter news feed, @IRSnews, to get the latest


Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                Page 19
   Check the status of your amended return using              let. Download the free IRS2Go app from the iTunes app
   Where's My Amended Return? Go to IRS.gov and en-           store or from Google Play.
   ter Where's My Amended Return? in the search box.
                                                                 Call to locate the nearest volunteer help site,
   You can generally expect your amended return to be
                                                                 1-800-906-9887 or you can use the VITA Locator Tool
   processed up to 12 weeks from the date we receive it.
                                                                 on IRS.gov, or download the IRS2Go app.
   It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed it to
                                                                 Low-to-moderate income, elderly, people with disabili-
   show up in our system.
                                                                 ties, and limited English proficient taxpayers can get
   Make a payment using one of several safe and con-             free help with their tax return from the nationwide Vol-
   venient electronic payment options available on               unteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. The
   IRS.gov. Select the Payment tab on the front page of          Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) program helps
   IRS.gov for more information.                                 taxpayers age 60 and older with their tax returns. Most
   Determine if you are eligible and apply for an online         VITA and TCE sites offer free electronic filing. Some
   payment agreement, if you owe more tax than you can           VITA and TCE sites provide IRS-certified volunteers
   pay today.                                                    who can help prepare your tax return. Through the
                                                                 TCE program, AARP offers the Tax-Aide counseling
   Figure your income tax withholding with the IRS               program; call 1-888-227-7669 to find the nearest
   Withholding Calculator on IRS.gov. Use it if you've           Tax-Aide location.
   had too much or too little withheld, your personal sit-
   uation has changed, you're starting a new job or you          Call the automated Where's My Refund? information
   just want to see if you're having the right amount with-      hotline to check the status of your 2014 refund 24
   held.                                                         hours a day, 7 days a week at 1-800-829-1954. If you
                                                                 e-file, you can start checking on the status of your re-
   Determine if you might be subject to the Alternative          turn within 24 hours after the IRS receives your tax re-
   Minimum Tax by using the Alternative Minimum Tax              turn or 4 weeks after you've mailed a paper return.
   Assistant on IRS.gov.                                         The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less
   Request an Electronic Filing PIN by going to                  than 21 days. Where's My Refund? will give you a per-
   IRS.gov and entering Electronic Filing PIN in the             sonalized refund date as soon as the IRS processes
   search box.                                                   your tax return and approves your refund. Before you
                                                                 call this automated hotline, have your 2014 tax return
   Download forms, instructions and publications, includ-
                                                                 handy so you can enter your social security number,
   ing accessible versions for people with disabilities.
                                                                 your filing status, and the exact whole dollar amount of
   Locate the nearest Taxpayer Assistance Center                 your refund. The IRS updates Where's My Refund?
   (TAC) using the Office Locator tool on IRS.gov, or            every 24 hours, usually overnight, so you only need to
   choose the Contact Us option on the IRS2Go app and            check once a day. Note, the above information is for
   search Local Offices. An employee can answer ques-            our automated hotline. Our live phone and walk-in as-
   tions about your tax account or help you set up a pay-        sistors can research the status of your refund only if
   ment plan. Before you visit, check the Office Locator         it's been 21 days or more since you filed electronically
   on IRS.gov, or Local Offices under Contact Us on              or more than 6 weeks since you mailed your paper re-
   IRS2Go to confirm the address, phone number, days             turn.
   and hours of operation, and the services provided. If
   you have a special need, such as a disability, you can        Call the Amended Return Hotline, 1-866-464-2050, to
   request an appointment. Call the local number listed          check the status of your amended return. You can
   in the Office Locator, or look in the phone book under        generally expect your amended return to be pro-
   United States Government, Internal Revenue Service.           cessed up to 12 weeks from the date we receive it. It
                                                                 can take up to 3 weeks from the date you mailed it to
   Apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN).            show up in our system.
   Go to IRS.gov and enter Apply for an EIN in the
   search box.                                                   Call 1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676) to order cur-
                                                                 rent-year forms, instructions, publications, and
   Read the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, or other         prior-year forms and instructions (limited to 5 years).
   official guidance.                                            You should receive your order within 10 business
   Read Internal Revenue Bulletins.                              days.
                                                                 Call TeleTax, 1-800-829-4477, to listen to pre-recor-
   Sign up to receive local and national tax news and
                                                                 ded messages covering general and business tax in-
   more by email. Just click on “subscriptions” above the
                                                                 formation. If, between January and April 15, you still
   search box on IRS.gov and choose from a variety of
                                                                 have questions about the Form 1040, 1040A, or
   options.
                                                                 1040EZ (like filing requirements, dependents, credits,
Phone. You can call the IRS, or you can carry it in your         Schedule D, pensions and IRAs or self-employment
pocket with the IRS2Go app on your smart phone or tab-           taxes), call 1-800-829-1040.
                                                                 Call using TTY/TDD equipment, 1-800-829-4059 to
                                                                 ask tax questions or order forms and publications. The

Page 20                                                                          Publication 3920 (September 2014)
   TTY/TDD telephone number is for people who are                 You face (or your business is facing) an immediate
   deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability.            threat of adverse action.
   These individuals can also contact the IRS through re-
                                                                  You've tried repeatedly to contact the IRS but no one
   lay services such as the Federal Relay Service.
                                                                  has responded, or the IRS hasn't responded by the
Walk­in. You can find a selection of forms, publications          date promised.
and services — in-person.
   Products. You can walk in to some post offices, libra-     If you qualify for our help, you'll be assigned to one advo-
   ries, and IRS offices to pick up certain forms, instruc-   cate who'll be with you at every turn and will do everything
   tions, and publications. Some IRS offices, libraries,      possible to resolve your problem. Here's why we can help:
   and city and county government offices have a collec-          TAS is an independent organization within the IRS.
   tion of products available to photocopy from reprodu-
   cible proofs.                                                  Our advocates know how to work with the IRS.
   Services. You can walk in to your local TAC for                Our services are free and tailored to meet your needs.
   face-to-face tax help. An employee can answer ques-
   tions about your tax account or help you set up a pay-         We have offices in every state, the District of Colum-
   ment plan. Before visiting, use the Office Locator tool        bia, and Puerto Rico.
   on IRS.gov, or choose the Contact Us option on the
   IRS2Go app and search Local Offices for days and           How can you reach us? If you think TAS can help you, call
   hours of operation, and services provided.                 your local advocate, whose number is in your local direc-
                                                              tory and at Taxpayer Advocate, or call us toll-free at
Mail. You can send your order for forms, instructions, and
                                                              1-877-777-4778.
publications to the address below. You should receive a
response within 10 business days after your request is re-
                                                              How else does TAS help taxpayers?
ceived.

    Internal Revenue Service                                  TAS also works to resolve large-scale, systemic problems
    1201 N. Mitsubishi Motorway                               that affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of these
    Bloomington, IL 61705-6613                                broad issues, please report it to us through our Systemic
                                                              Advocacy Management System.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is Here to Help You. The        Low Income Taxpayer Clinics
Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is your voice at the
IRS. Our job is to ensure that every taxpayer is treated      Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) serve individuals
fairly and that you know and understand your rights.          whose income is below a certain level and need to resolve
                                                              tax problems such as audits, appeals and tax collection
What can TAS do for you? We can offer you free help with      disputes. Some clinics can provide information about tax-
IRS problems that you can't resolve on your own. We           payer rights and responsibilities in different languages for
know this process can be confusing, but the worst thing       individuals who speak English as a second language. Visit
you can do is nothing at all! TAS can help if you can't re-   Taxpayer Advocate or see IRS Publication 4134, Low In-
solve your tax problem and:                                   come Taxpayer Clinic List.
   Your problem is causing financial difficulties for you,
   your family, or your business.




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                Page 21
                    To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
Index               See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

                                         Examples:
$10,000 minimum relief:                    Disability payments 2, 3              M
  Tax forgiveness 8                        Tax forgiveness:                      Married filing separately:
                                              Minimum amount of relief 9         (See also Tax forgiveness)
                                              Refund of taxes paid 11              Figuring tax forgiveness 5, 6, 16
A                                             September 11 attacks 5
Amended returns 11
  Disability payments 3                                                          O
  Tax forgiveness 11                     F                                       Oklahoma City attack:
Anthrax attacks:                         Filing deadline:                        (See also Tax forgiveness)
(See also Tax forgiveness)                  Tax forgiveness:                       Years eligible for tax forgiveness 4
  Years eligible for tax forgiveness 4         Credit for taxes paid 4           Ordering:
Assistance 19                                  Refund of taxes paid 4              Forms 2
(See also Tax help)                      Forgiveness, Tax (See Tax                 Publications 2
  Hours 2                                   forgiveness)                         Ordering a filed tax return 12
  Phone number 2                         Form 1040:
  Topics not covered in this                Disability payments 3
     publication 2                          Tax forgiveness 11                   P
                                         Form 1040NR:                            Private delivery services 12
                                            Disability payments 3                Publications (See Tax help)
B                                           Tax forgiveness 11                   Public safety officers:
Bureau of Justice Assistance 4           Form 1040X:                                Survivors of 4
                                            Disability payments 3
                                            Example 3
C                                           Tax forgiveness 4, 11                Q
Comments and suggestions 2               Form 1041:                              Qualified disaster relief
                                            Income received after death 9          payments 3
                                            Tax forgiveness 4                    Qualifying widow(er):
D                                                                                (See also Tax forgiveness)
Death benefits 4                         Form 706 13
                                         Free tax services 19                      Figuring tax forgiveness 5, 6, 16
  Public safety officers:
    Bureau of Justice Assistance 4
    Government plan annuity 4            G                                       R
    Survivors of 4                       Government plan annuity 4               Refund of taxes paid 4
Decedents (See Tax forgiveness)
Disability payments 2
  Examples 2, 3                          H                                       S
  Nontaxable payments reported as        Head of household:                      September 11 attacks:
    taxable 3                            (See also Tax forgiveness)              (See also Tax forgiveness)
    Which form to use 3                    Figuring tax forgiveness 5, 6, 16       Years eligible for tax forgiveness 4
  Payments not covered 2                 Help (See Tax help)                     September 11th Victim
  SSDI 2, 3                                                                        Compensation Fund of 2001:
  Taxes incorrectly withheld 3                                                     Payments to survivors 2
  Which form to use:                     I                                         Reduction of estate tax 13
    Form 1040 3                          Income received after death:            Single filing status:
    Form 1040NR 3                           Tax forgiveness 9                    (See also Tax forgiveness)
    Nonresident alien 3                  Instructions:                             Figuring tax forgiveness 5, 6, 16
                                            Worksheet B 8                        Structured settlement factoring
                                            Worksheet C 10                         transactions 13
E                                           Worksheet D 11                       Survivors, Payments to 2
Estate tax reduction 13                                                          Survivors, Payments to:
  Form 706:                                                                        Death benefits 4
     When to file 13                     J                                         Disability payments (See Disability
     Where to file 13                    Joint returns:                               payments)
     Who must file 13                    (See also Tax forgiveness)                Public safety officers 4
  September 11th Victim                    Figuring tax forgiveness 5, 7, 13,      Qualified disaster relief payments 3
     Compensation Fund of 2001 13             14, 17


Page 22                                                                           Publication 3920 (September 2014)
  September 11th Victim                       Qualifying widow(er) 5, 6, 16             Nonresident alien 11
     Compensation Fund of 2001 2              Single filing status 5, 6, 16          Years eligible 4
Survivors:                                    Tax not eligible for forgiveness 9        Anthrax attacks 4
  Of the attacks (See Survivors,              Worksheet A 5, 6, 8, 16                   Oklahoma City attack 4
     Payments to)                             Worksheet B 5, 7, 8, 13, 14, 17           September 11 attacks 4
  Of victims of the                       Filling out the tax return 12            Tax help 19
     attacks (See Survivors,              How to claim 11, 12                      Tax return:
     Payments to)                             Form 1310, When required 12            Ordering a filed return 12
                                              Necessary documents 12
                                              Ordering a filed tax return 12
T                                             Private delivery services,           W
Table 1: Total tax line 8                        Using 12                          Where to file, Special rules for:
Tax forgiveness 4                             Proof of death, What qualifies        Estate tax reduction 13
  $10,000 minimum relief 8, 10, 11,              as 12                              Tax forgiveness 12
     13, 15, 18                               Taxpayer identification number       Worksheet A 5
     Worksheet A 8                               (TIN) requirement 12               Blank 6, 16
     Worksheet B 8                            Where to file 12                      Line 2, total tax 8
     Worksheet C 8, 10, 13, 15, 18        Nonresident alien:                       Worksheet B 5
     Worksheet D 11                           Taxpayer identification number        Blank 7, 17
  Credit for taxes paid 4                        (TIN) requirement 12               Illustrated 13, 14
  Deadline for filing 4                       Which form to use 11                  Instructions 8
  Examples:                               Refund of taxes paid 4, 11                Line 11, total tax 8
     September 11 attacks 5                   Examples 11                          Worksheet C:
  Figuring the amount 5, 8                Tax not eligible for forgiveness 9        Blank 10, 18
     Both spouses died 5                  Which form to use:                        Illustrated 13, 15
     Community property states 5              Amended returns 11                    Instructions 10
     Head of household 5, 6, 16               Form 1040 11                         Worksheet D:
     Income received after death 9            Form 1040NR 11                        Blank 11
     Joint returns 5, 7, 13, 14, 17           Form 1040X 11                         Instructions 11
     Married filing separately 5, 6, 16       Form 1041 9
     Minimum amount of relief 8




Publication 3920 (September 2014)                                                                                 Page 23

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
