# p583_3

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:56:51  
**Original File:** p583_3.pdf

---

## Content

Contents
                                                                        Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Publication 583                                                         Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
(Rev. December 2024)
                                                                        What New Business Owners Need To Know . . . . . 2


Starting a                                                              Determining Which Type of Business to Use . . . . . 2
                                                                        Getting a Taxpayer Identification Number

Business and
                                                                           (TIN) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                                                           Employer Identification Number (EIN) . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                                                           Payee's Identification Number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

Keeping                                                                 Designating a Tax Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4


Records
                                                                        Choosing an Accounting Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                                                                        Business Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                                                                           Income Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                                                                           Self-Employment Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
                                                                           Employment Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
                                                                           Excise Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
                                                                           Depositing Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
                                                                        Information Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
                                                                        Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
                                                                        Deducting Business Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
                                                                           Business Start-Up Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
                                                                           Depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
                                                                           Business Use of Your Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
                                                                        Recordkeeping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
                                                                        How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
                                                                        Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28



                                                                        Future Developments
                                                                        For the latest information about developments related to
                                                                        Pub. 583, such as legislation enacted after it was
                                                                        published, go to IRS.gov/Pub583.



                                                                        Introduction
                                                                        This publication provides basic federal tax information for
                                                                        people who are starting a business. It also provides infor-
                                                                        mation on keeping records and illustrates a recordkeeping
                                                                        system.
                                                                           Throughout this publication we refer to other IRS publi-
                                                                        cations and forms where you will find more information. In
                                                                        addition, you may want to contact other government agen-
                                                                        cies, such as the Small Business Administration (SBA) at
                                                                        SBA.gov.
 Get forms and other information faster and easier at:                  Comments and suggestions. We welcome your com-
 • IRS.gov (English)             • IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
 • IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)     • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)            ments about this publication and suggestions for future
 • IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)          • IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)      editions.

                                            Publication 583 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 15150B
Jan 28, 2025                           Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
   You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
                                                                   What New Business Owners
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
   Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
                                                                   Need To Know
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will             As a new business owner, you need to know your federal
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise                tax responsibilities. Table 1 can help you learn what those
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Do not send         responsibilities are. Ask yourself each question listed in
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-           the table, then see the related discussion to find the an-
dress.                                                             swer.
   Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have                In addition to knowing about federal taxes, you need to
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How         make some basic business decisions. Ask yourself:
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/               • What are my financial resources?
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search              • What products and services will I sell?
feature or viewing the categories listed.
                                                                    • How will I market my products and services?
   Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.               • How will I develop a strategic business plan?
Visit IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.                              • How will I manage my business on a day-to-day ba-
                                                                      sis?
   Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-           • How will I recruit employees?
tions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order                The Small Business Administration (SBA) is a federal
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process            agency that can help you answer these types of ques-
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.         tions. For information about the SBA, see SBA.gov.
Do not resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.
                                                                   Determining Which Type of
                                                                   Business to Use
                                                                   The most common forms of business are the sole proprie-
                                                                   torship, partnership, and corporation. When beginning a
                                                                   business, you must decide which form of business to use.
Table 1. What New Business Owners Need To Know About Federal Taxes
            (Note: This table is intended to help you, as a new business owner, learn what you need to know about
            your federal tax responsibilities. To use it, ask yourself each question in the left column, then see the
            related discussion in the right column.)

                      What must I know?                                           Where to find the answer...
Which form of business will I use?                                   See Determining Which Type of Business to Use.
Will I need an employer identification number (EIN)?                 See Getting a Taxpayer Identification Number.
Do I have to start my tax year in January, or may I start it in      See Designating a Tax Year.
any other month?
What method can I use to account for my income and                   See Choosing an Accounting Method.
expenses?
What kinds of federal taxes will I have to pay? How should I         See Business Taxes.
pay my taxes?
What must I do if I have employees?                                  See Employment Taxes.
Which forms must I file?                                             See Table 2 and Information Returns.
Are there penalties if I do not pay my taxes or file my returns?     See Penalties.
What business expenses can I deduct on my federal income             See Deducting Business Expenses.
tax return?
What records must I keep? How long must I keep them?                 See Recordkeeping.

2                                                                                                Publication 583 (12-2024)
Legal and tax considerations enter into this decision. Only     "material participation," see the instructions for Sched-
tax considerations are discussed in this Pub.                   ule C (Form 1040), line G.
                                                                   To make this election, you must divide all items of in-
        Your form of business determines which income
                                                                come, gain, loss, deduction, and credit attributable to the
 TIP tax return form you have to file. See Table 2 to find
                                                                business between you and your spouse in accordance
        out which form you have to file.
                                                                with your respective interests in the venture. Each of you
                                                                must file a separate Schedule C (Form 1040) and a sepa-
Sole proprietorships. A sole proprietorship is an unin-         rate Schedule SE (Form 1040). For more information, see
corporated business that is owned by one individual. It is      Qualified Joint Venture in the Instructions for Schedule SE
the simplest form of business organization to start and         (Form 1040).
maintain. The business has no existence apart from you,
the owner. Its liabilities are your personal liabilities. You   Corporations. In forming a corporation, prospective
undertake the risks of the business for all assets owned,       shareholders exchange money, property, or both, for the
whether or not used in the business. You include the in-        corporation's capital stock. A corporation generally takes
come and expenses of the business on your personal tax          the same deductions as a sole proprietorship to figure its
return.                                                         taxable income. A corporation can also take special de-
   More information. For more information on sole pro-          ductions.
prietorships, see Pub. 334. If you are a farmer, see Pub.          C corporations. The profit of a C corporation is taxed
225.                                                            to the corporation when earned, and then is taxed to the
                                                                shareholders when distributed as dividends. However,
Partnerships. A partnership is the relationship existing        shareholders cannot deduct any loss of the corporation.
between two or more persons who join to carry on a trade        For more information on corporations, see Pub. 542.
or business. Each person contributes money, property, la-
bor, or skill, and expects to share in the profits and losses       S corporations. An eligible domestic corporation (or a
of the business.                                                domestic entity eligible to elect to be treated as a corpora-
   A partnership must file an annual information return to      tion) can avoid double taxation (once to the corporation
report the income, deductions, gains, losses, etc., from its    and again to the shareholders) as long as it meets certain
operations, but it does not pay income tax. Instead, it         tests and elects to be treated as an S corporation. Gener-
“passes through” any profits or losses to its partners. Each    ally, an S corporation is exempt from federal income tax
partner includes his or her share of the partnership's items    other than tax on certain capital gains and passive in-
on his or her tax return.                                       come. On their tax returns, the S corporation's sharehold-
                                                                ers include their share of the corporation's separately sta-
   More information. For more information on partner-           ted items of income, deduction, loss, and credit, and their
ships, see Pub. 541.                                            share of nonseparately stated income or loss. For more in-
                                                                formation on S corporations and the tests that need to be
Business owned and operated by spouses. If you and
                                                                met to be eligible to elect to be an S corporation, see the
your spouse jointly own and operate an unincorporated
                                                                instructions for Form 2553, Election by a Small Business
business and share in the profits and losses, you are part-
                                                                Corporation, and Form 1120-S, U.S. Income Tax Return
ners in a partnership, whether or not you have a formal
                                                                for an S Corporation.
partnership agreement. Do not use Schedule C (Form
1040). Instead, file Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership      Limited liability company. A limited liability company
Income. For more information, see Pub. 541.                     (LLC) is an entity formed under state law by filing articles
   Exception—Community Income. If you and your                  of organization as an LLC. The members of an LLC are
spouse wholly own an unincorporated business as com-            not personally liable for its debts. An LLC may be classi-
munity property under the community property laws of a          fied for federal income tax purposes as either a partner-
state, foreign country, or U.S. possession, you can treat       ship, a corporation, or an entity disregarded as separate
the business either as a sole proprietorship or a partner-      from its owner by applying the rules in Regulations section
ship. States with community property laws include Ari-          301.7701-3.
zona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico,            More information. For more information on LLCs, see
Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. See Pub. 555 for              the Instructions for Form 8832, Entity Classification Elec-
more information about community property laws.                 tion.
   Exception—Qualified joint venture. If you and your
spouse each materially participate as the only members of
an unincorporated, jointly owned and operated business,
and you file a joint return for the tax year, you can make a
joint election to be treated as a qualified joint venture in-
stead of a partnership for the tax year. Making this election
will allow you to avoid the complexity of Form 1065 but still
give each spouse credit for social security earnings on
which retirement benefits are based. For an explanation of


Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                  3
                                                                  Do not use your social security number as a substitute for
Getting a Taxpayer                                                an EIN on your tax returns.

Identification Number (TIN)                                       More than one EIN. You should have only one EIN for a
                                                                  business entity. If you have more than one EIN and are not
                                                                  sure which to use, contact the Internal Revenue Service
You must have a TIN so the IRS can process your returns.          Center where you file your return. Give the numbers you
Two of the most common kinds of TINs are the social se-           have, the name and address to which each was assigned,
curity number (SSN) and the employer identification num-          and the address of your main place of business. The IRS
ber (EIN).                                                        will tell you which number to use.
    • An SSN is issued to individuals by the Social Security
      Administration (SSA) and is in the following format:        More information. For more information about EINs, see
      000–00–0000.                                                Pub. 1635.

    • An EIN is issued to individuals (sole proprietors), part-   Payee's Identification Number
      nerships, corporations, and other entities by the IRS
      and is in the following format: 00–0000000.
                                                                  In the operation of a business, you will probably make cer-
Providing your TIN to others. You must include your               tain payments you must report on information returns (dis-
TIN (SSN or EIN) on all returns and other documents you           cussed later under Information Returns). The forms used
send to the IRS. You must also provide your TIN to other          to report these payments must include the payee's identifi-
persons who use your TIN on any returns or documents              cation number.
they send to the IRS. This includes returns or documents
filed to report the following information.                        Employee. If you have employees, you must get an SSN
                                                                  from each of them. Record the name and SSN of each
 1. Interest, dividends, royalties, etc., paid to you.            employee exactly as they are shown on the employee's
 2. Any amount paid to you as a dependent care provider.          social security card. If the employee's name is not correct
                                                                  as shown on the card, the employee should request a new
 3. Certain other amounts paid to you that total $600 or          card from the SSA. This may occur, for example, if the em-
    more for the year.                                            ployee's name has changed due to marriage or divorce.
                                                                     If your employee does not have an SSN, he or she
  If you do not furnish your TIN as required, you may be
                                                                  should file Form SS-5, Application for a Social Security
subject to penalties. See Penalties, later.
                                                                  Card, with the SSA. This form is available at SSA offices
                                                                  or by calling 800-772-1213. It is also available from the
Employer Identification Number (EIN)                              SSA website at SSA.gov.
EINs are assigned to sole proprietors, LLCs, corporations,        Other payee. If you make payments to someone who is
and partnerships for tax filing and reporting purposes. See       not your employee and you must report the payments on
Form SS-4 and its instructions for more information and to        an information return, get that person's SSN. If you make
see which businesses must get an EIN.                             reportable payments to an organization, such as a corpo-
                                                                  ration or partnership, you must get its EIN.
Applying for an EIN. You may apply for an EIN:                       To get the payee's SSN or EIN, use Form W-9, Request
    • Online—Click on the Employer ID Numbers (EINs) link         for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification. For
      at IRS.gov/businesses/small. The EIN is issued imme-        more information, see IRS.gov/FormW9.
      diately once the application information is validated.               If the payee does not provide you with an identifi-
    • By mailing or faxing Form SS-4, Application for Em-           !      cation number, you may have to withhold part of
      ployer Identification Number.                                CAUTION the payments as backup withholding. For informa-

                                                                  tion on backup withholding, see the Instructions for the
    • International applicants may call 267-941-1099 (not a
      toll-free number).                                          Requester of Form W-9 and the General Instructions for
                                                                  Certain Information Returns.

   When to apply. You should apply for an EIN early
enough to receive the number by the time you must file a
return or statement or make a tax deposit. If you apply by
                                                                  Designating a Tax Year
mail, file Form SS-4 at least 4 weeks before you need an
                                                                  You must figure your taxable income and file an income
EIN. If you apply by telephone or through the IRS website,
                                                                  tax return based on an annual accounting period called a
you can get an EIN immediately. If you apply by fax, you
                                                                  tax year. A tax year is usually 12 consecutive months.
can get an EIN within 4 business days.
                                                                  There are two kinds of tax years.
   If you do not receive your EIN by the time a return is
due, file your return anyway. Write “Applied for” and the          1. Calendar tax year. A calendar tax year is 12 consec-
date you applied for the number in the space for the EIN.             utive months beginning January 1 and ending De-
                                                                      cember 31.

4                                                                                                Publication 583 (12-2024)
 2. Fiscal tax year. A fiscal tax year is 12 consecutive       For other methods, see Pub. 538.
    months ending on the last day of any month except
    December. A 52-53-week tax year is a fiscal tax year          If an inventory is necessary to account for your income,
    that varies from 52 to 53 weeks but does not have to       you must generally use an accrual method of accounting
    end on the last day of a month.                            for purchases and sales. Inventories include goods held
                                                               for sale in the normal course of business. They also in-
   If you file your first tax return using the calendar tax    clude raw materials and supplies that will physically be-
year and you later begin business as a sole proprietor, be-    come a part of merchandise intended for sale. Inventories
come a partner in a partnership, or become a shareholder       are explained in Pub. 538.
in an S corporation, you must continue to use the calendar
                                                                       Certain small business taxpayers can use the
year unless you get IRS approval to change it or are other-
wise allowed to change it without IRS approval.                 TIP cash method of accounting and can also account
                                                                       for inventoriable items as materials and supplies
   You must use a calendar tax year if:                        that are not incidental. For more information, see Pub.
 • You keep no books or records.                               538.
 • You have no annual accounting period.                          You must use the same accounting method to figure
 • Your present tax year does not qualify as a fiscal year.    your taxable income and to keep your books. Also, you
 • You are required to use a calendar year by a provision      must use an accounting method that clearly shows your
   of the Internal Revenue Code or the Income Tax Regu-        income. In general, any accounting method that consis-
   lations.                                                    tently uses accounting principles suitable for your trade or
                                                               business clearly shows income. An accounting method
  For more information, see Pub. 538.
                                                               clearly shows income only if it treats all items of gross in-
First-time filer. If you have never filed an income tax re-    come and expense the same from year to year.
turn for your business, you can adopt either a calendar tax
                                                               More than one business. When you own more than one
year or a fiscal tax year. Although, some partnerships and
                                                               business, you can use a different accounting method for
S corporations must use a particular tax year. See Pub.
                                                               each business if the method you use for each clearly
538 for more information.
                                                               shows your income. You must keep a complete and sepa-
    You adopt a tax year by filing your first income tax re-
                                                               rate set of books and records for each business.
turn using that tax year. You have not adopted a tax year if
all you did was one or more of the following.                  Changing your method of accounting. Once you have
 • Filed an application for an extension of time to file an    set up your accounting method, you must generally get
   income tax return.                                          IRS approval before you can change to another method. A
                                                               change in accounting method not only includes a change
 • Filed an application for an EIN.                            in your overall system of accounting, but also a change in
 • Paid estimated taxes for that tax year.                     the treatment of any material item. For examples of
                                                               changes that require approval and information on how to
Changing your tax year. Once you have adopted your             get approval for the change, see Pub. 538.
tax year, you may have to get IRS approval to change it. To
get approval, you must file Form 1128, Application To
Adopt, Change, or Retain a Tax Year. You may have to pay
a fee. For more information, see Pub. 538.                     Business Taxes
                                                               The form of business you operate determines what taxes
Choosing an Accounting                                         you must pay and how you pay them. The following are
                                                               the four general kinds of business taxes.
Method                                                          • Income tax.
                                                                • Self-employment tax.
An accounting method is a set of rules used to determine
when and how income and expenses are reported. You              • Employment taxes.
choose an accounting method for your business when you          • Excise taxes.
file your first income tax return. There are two basic ac-
counting methods.                                                See Table 2 for the forms you file to report these taxes.
 1. Cash method. Under the cash method, you report in-                 You may want to get Pub. 509. It has tax calen-
    come in the tax year you receive it. You usually deduct     TIP dars that tell you when to file returns and make tax
    or capitalize expenses in the tax year you pay them.               payments.
 2. Accrual method. Under an accrual method, you gen-
    erally report income in the tax year you earn it, even     Income Tax
    though you may receive payment in a later year. You
    deduct or capitalize expenses in the tax year you incur    All businesses except partnerships must file an annual in-
    them, whether or not you pay them that year.               come tax return. Partnerships file an information return.

Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                 5
Table 2. Which Forms Must I File?
 IF you are a...                              THEN you may have to pay...               FILE form...
 Sole proprietor                              Income tax                                1040 or 1040-SR, and Schedule C 1
                                                                                        (Schedule F 1 for farm business)
                                              Self-employment tax                       1040 or 1040-SR, and Schedule SE
                                              Estimated tax                             1040-ES
                                              Employment taxes:
                                              • Social security and Medicare            941 or 944 (943 for farm employees)
                                                 taxes and income tax
                                                 withholding
                                              • Federal unemployment (FUTA)             940
                                                 tax
                                              Excise taxes                              See Excise Taxes
 Partnership                                  Annual return of income                   1065
                                              Employment taxes                          Same as sole proprietor
                                              Excise taxes                              See Excise Taxes
 Partner in a partnership (individual)        Income tax                                1040 or 1040-SR, and Schedule E 2
                                              Self-employment tax                       1040 or 1040-SR, and Schedule SE
                                              Estimated tax                             1040-ES
 C corporation or S corporation               Income tax                                1120 (C corporation) 2
                                                                                        1120-S (S corporation) 2
                                              Estimated tax                             1120-W (corporation only)
                                              Employment taxes                          Same as sole proprietor
                                              Excise taxes                              See Excise Taxes
 S corporation shareholder                    Income tax                                1040 or 1040-SR, and Schedule E 2
                                              Estimated tax                             1040-ES

1
    File a separate schedule for each business.
2
    Various other schedules may be needed.

Which form you use depends on how your business is or-                 Sole proprietors, partners, and S corporation
ganized. See Table 2 to find out which return you have to           shareholders. You generally have to make estimated tax
file.                                                               payments if you expect to owe tax of $1,000 or more when
                                                                    you file your return. Use Form 1040-ES, Estimated Tax for
   The federal income tax is a pay-as-you-go tax. You
                                                                    Individuals, to figure and pay your estimated tax. For more
must pay the tax as you earn or receive income during the
                                                                    information, see Pub. 505.
year. An employee usually has income tax withheld from
his or her pay. If you do not pay your tax through withhold-           Corporations. You generally have to make estimated
ing, or do not pay enough tax that way, you might have to           tax payments for your corporation if you expect it to owe
pay estimated tax. If you are not required to make estima-          tax of $500 or more when you file its return. You must de-
ted tax payments, you may pay any tax due when you file             posit the payments as explained later under Depositing
your return.                                                        Taxes. For more information, see Pub. 542.

Reminder. If your business is an LLC, how you elected to
have the LLC treated for tax purposes (either as a corpo-
                                                                    Self-Employment Tax
ration, partnership, or as part of the LLC owner's tax re-
turn) will determine what taxes you must pay and what               Self-employment tax (SE tax) is a social security and
forms you should use to pay your taxes.                             Medicare tax primarily for individuals who work for them-
                                                                    selves. Your payments of SE tax contribute to your cover-
Estimated tax. Generally, you must pay taxes on income,             age under the social security system. Social security cov-
including self-employment tax (discussed next), by mak-             erage provides you with retirement benefits, disability
ing regular payments of estimated tax during the year.              benefits, survivor benefits, and hospital insurance (Medi-
                                                                    care) benefits.

6                                                                                                 Publication 583 (12-2024)
    You must pay SE tax and file Schedule SE (Form 1040)       Form W-4 (discussed later under Hiring Employees) and
if either of the following applies.                            the methods described in Pub. 15-T. Pub. 15-T provides
                                                               instructions about how to apply Form W-4 to calculate
 1. Your net earnings from self-employment were $400 or
                                                               withholding on the employee.
    more.
 2. You had church employee income of $108.28 or more.            Social security and Medicare taxes pay for benefits that
                                                               workers and their families receive under the Federal Insur-
Use Schedule SE (Form 1040) to figure your SE tax. For         ance Contributions Act (FICA). Social security tax pays for
more information, see Pub. 334.                                benefits under the old-age, survivors, and disability insur-
        You can deduct a portion of your SE tax as an ad-      ance part of FICA. Medicare tax pays for benefits under
 TIP justment to income on your Form 1040 or                   the hospital insurance part of FICA. You withhold part of
        1040-SR.                                               these taxes from your employee's wages and you pay a
                                                               part yourself. To find out how much social security and
The Social Security Administration (SSA) time limit            Medicare tax to withhold and to pay, see Pub. 15.
for posting self-employment income. Generally, the
                                                               Which form do I file? Report these taxes on Form 941,
SSA will give you credit only for self-employment income
                                                               Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return, or Form
reported on a tax return filed within 3 years, 3 months, and
                                                               944, Employer's ANNUAL Federal Tax Return. (Farm em-
15 days after the tax year you earned the income. If you
                                                               ployers use Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax Re-
file your tax return or report a change in your self-employ-
                                                               turn for Agricultural Employees.)
ment income after this time limit, the SSA may change its
records, but only to remove or reduce the amount. The
SSA will not change its records to increase your self-em-      Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax
ployment income.
                                                               The federal unemployment tax is part of the federal and
                                                               state program under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act
Employment Taxes                                               (FUTA) that pays unemployment compensation to workers
                                                               who lose their jobs. You report and pay FUTA tax sepa-
This section briefly discusses the employment taxes you
                                                               rately from social security and Medicare taxes and with-
must pay, the forms you must file to report them, and other
                                                               held income tax. You pay FUTA tax only from your own
forms that must be filed when you have employees.
                                                               funds. Employees do not pay this tax or have it withheld
  Employment taxes include the following.                      from their pay.
 • Social security and Medicare taxes.                         Which form do I file? Report federal unemployment tax
 • Federal income tax withholding.                             on Form 940, Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment
                                                               (FUTA) Tax Return. See Pub. 15 to find out if you can use
 • Federal unemployment (FUTA) tax.                            this form.
   If you have employees, you will need to get Pub. 15
(Circular E), Employer's Tax Guide. If you have agricultural   Hiring Employees
employees, get Pub. 51 (Circular A), Agricultural Employ-
er's Tax Guide. These publications explain your tax re-        Have the employees you hire fill out Form I-9 and Form
sponsibilities as an employer.                                 W-4.
   If you are not sure whether the people working for you      Form I-9. You must verify that each new employee is le-
are your employees, see Pub. 15-A. That publication has        gally eligible to work in the United States. Both you and
information to help you determine whether an individual is     the employee must complete the U.S. Citizenship and Im-
an employee or an independent contractor. Also, people         migration Services (USCIS) Form I-9, Employment Eligi-
who provide a service generally associated with the shar-      bility Verification. You can get the form from USCIS offices
ing (or on-demand, gig, or access) economy are, under          or from the USCIS website at USCIS.gov. Call the USCIS
certain circumstances, independent contractors. An inde-       at 800-375-5283 for more information about your respon-
pendent contractor is someone who is self-employed.            sibilities.
Generally, you do not have to withhold or pay any taxes on
payments to an independent contractor. If you wrongly          Form W-4. Each employee must fill out Form W-4, Em-
classify an employee as an independent contractor, you         ployee's Withholding Certificate. You will use the informa-
can be held liable for employment taxes for that worker        tion provided on this form to figure the amount of income
plus a penalty.                                                tax to withhold from your employee's wages. For more in-
                                                               formation, see Pub. 15-T.
Federal Income, Social Security, and
Medicare Taxes                                                 Form W-2 Wage Reporting
You generally must withhold federal income tax from your       After the calendar year is over, you must furnish copies of
employee's wages. To figure how much federal income tax        Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, to each employee to
to withhold from each wage payment, use the employee's         whom you paid wages during the year. You must also

Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                7
send copies to the Social Security Administration. See In-            Any business that has a federal tax obligation and re-
formation Returns, later, for more information on Form              quests a new EIN will automatically be enrolled in EFTPS.
W-2.                                                                Through the mail, the business will receive an EFTPS PIN
                                                                    package that contains instructions for activating its EFTPS
Excise Taxes                                                        enrollment.

This section describes the excise taxes you may have to
pay and the forms you have to file if you do any of the fol-        Information Returns
lowing.
                                                                    If you make or receive payments in your business, you
    • Manufacture or sell certain products.
                                                                    may have to report them to the IRS on information returns.
    • Operate certain kinds of businesses.                          The IRS compares the payments shown on the informa-
    • Use various kinds of equipment, facilities, or products.      tion returns with each person's income tax return to see if
                                                                    the payments were included in income. You must give a
    • Receive payment for certain services.                         copy of each information return you are required to file to
For more information on excise taxes, see Pub. 510.                 the recipient or payer. In addition to the forms described
                                                                    below, you may have to use other returns to report certain
Form 720. The federal excise taxes reported on Form                 kinds of payments or transactions. For more details on in-
720, Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return, consist of sev-           formation returns and when you have to file them, see the
eral broad categories of taxes, including the following.            General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
    • Environmental taxes.                                          Form 1099-MISC. Use Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous
    • Communications and air transportation taxes.                  Information, to report certain payments you make in your
    • Fuel taxes.                                                   trade or business. These payments include the following
                                                                    items.
    • Tax on the first retail sale of heavy trucks, trailers, and
      tractors.                                                      • Royalty payments of $10 or more.
    • Manufacturers taxes on the sale or use of a variety of         • Rent payments of $600 or more, other than rents paid
      different articles.                                              to real estate agents.
                                                                     • Prizes and awards of $600 or more that are not for
Form 2290. There is a federal excise tax on certain                    services, such as winnings on TV or radio shows.
trucks, truck tractors, and buses used on public highways.
The tax applies to vehicles having a taxable gross weight            • Payments to certain crew members by operators of
of 55,000 pounds or more. Report the tax on Form 2290,                 fishing boats.
Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax Return. For more infor-                • Cash payments of $600 or more for fish (or other
mation, see the Instructions for Form 2290.                            aquatic life) you purchase from anyone engaged in the
                                                                       trade or business of catching fish.
Form 730. If you are in the business of accepting wagers
or conducting a wagering pool or lottery, you may be liable         Either the Form 1099-MISC or Form 1099-NEC can be
for the federal excise tax on wagering. Use Form 730,               used to report sales totaling $5,000 or more of consumer
Monthly Tax Return for Wagers, to figure the tax on the             products to a person on a buy-sell, deposit-commission,
wagers you receive.                                                 or other commission basis for resale anywhere other than
                                                                    in a permanent retail establishment. For more information
Form 11-C. Use Form 11-C, Occupational Tax and Reg-                 on what to report on Form 1099-MISC, see the Instruc-
istration Return for Wagering, to register for any wagering         tions for Forms 1099-MISC and 1099-NEC.
activity and to pay the federal occupational tax on wager-
ing.                                                                Form 1099-NEC. Use Form 1099-NEC, Nonemployee
                                                                    Compensation, to report certain payments you make in
                                                                    your trade or business. These payments include the fol-
Depositing Taxes                                                    lowing items.
You generally have to deposit federal employment taxes,              • Payments of $600 or more for services performed by
certain excise taxes, corporate income tax, and S corpora-             someone who is not your employee.
tion taxes before you file your return.                              • If you withheld certain federal income tax under the
                                                                       backup withholding rules regardless of the amount of
   You must use an electronic funds transfer (EFT) to                  the payment.
make all federal tax deposits. Generally, an EFT is made
using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System                     You may choose to report direct sales of $5,000 or more of
(EFTPS). If you don't want to use EFTPS, you can arrange            consumer goods to a person for resale on Form
for your tax professional, financial institution, payroll serv-     1099-NEC rather than Form 1099-MISC. For more infor-
ice, or other trusted third party to make electronic deposits       mation on what to report on Form 1099-NEC, see the In-
on your behalf.                                                     structions for Forms 1099-MISC and 1099-NEC.


8                                                                                                 Publication 583 (12-2024)
Form W-2. You must file Form W-2, Wage and Tax State-                In addition, there is no penalty for failure to include all
ment, to report payments to your employees, such as wa-           the required information, or for including incorrect informa-
ges, tips, and other compensation, withheld income, so-           tion, on a de minimis number of information returns if you
cial security, and Medicare taxes. For more information on        correct the errors by August 1 of the year the returns are
what to report on Form W-2, see the Instructions for              due. (To be considered de minimis, the number of returns
Forms W-2 and W-3.                                                cannot exceed the greater of 10 or 1/2 of 1% of the total
                                                                  number of returns you are required to file for the year.)
Form 8300. You must file Form 8300, Report of Cash                There is also no penalty, and no need for a corrected re-
Payments Over $10,000 Received in a Trade or Business,            turn to be filed, for incorrect dollar amounts where no sin-
if you receive more than $10,000 in cash in one transac-          gle amount differs from the correct amount by more than
tion or two or more related business transactions. Cash in-       $100 ($25 for tax withheld).
cludes U.S. and foreign coin and currency. It also includes
certain monetary instruments such as cashier's and travel-        Failure to supply TIN. If you do not include your TIN
er's checks and money orders. For more information, see           (SSN or EIN) or the TIN of another person where required
Pub. 1544.                                                        on a return, statement, or other document, you may be
                                                                  subject to a penalty of $50 for each failure. You may also
                                                                  be subject to the $50 penalty if you do not provide your
Penalties                                                         TIN to another person when it is required on a return,
                                                                  statement, or other document.
The law provides penalties for not filing returns or paying
taxes as required. Criminal penalties may be imposed for
willful failure to file, tax evasion, or making a false state-    Deducting Business Expenses
ment.
                                                                  You can deduct business expenses on your business or
Failure to file tax returns. If you do not file your tax re-      personal income tax return, depending on the form of your
turn by the due date, you may have to pay a penalty. The          business. These are the current operating costs of running
penalty is based on the tax not paid by the due date. See         your business. To be deductible, a business expense must
your tax return instructions for more information about this      be both ordinary and necessary. An ordinary expense is
penalty.                                                          one that is common and accepted in your field of busi-
                                                                  ness, trade, or profession. A necessary expense is one
Failure to pay tax. If you do not pay your taxes by the           that is helpful and appropriate for your business, trade, or
due date, you will have to pay a penalty for each month, or       profession. An expense does not have to be indispensa-
part of a month, that your taxes are not paid. For more in-       ble to be considered necessary.
formation, see your tax return instructions.
                                                                     The following are brief explanations of some expenses
Failure to withhold, deposit, or pay taxes. If you do             that are of interest to people starting a business. There are
not withhold income, social security, or Medicare taxes           many other expenses that you may be able to deduct. See
from employees, or if you withhold taxes but do not de-           your form instructions and chapter 8, Business Expenses
posit them or pay them to the IRS, you may be subject to a        in Pub. 334.
penalty of the unpaid tax, plus interest. You may also be
subject to penalties if you deposit the taxes late. For more
information, see Pub. 15.
                                                                  Business Start-Up Costs
                                                                  Business start-up costs are the expenses you incur before
Failure to follow information reporting requirements.
                                                                  you actually begin business operations. Your business
The following penalties apply if you are required to file in-
                                                                  start-up costs will depend on the type of business you are
formation returns. For more information, see the General
                                                                  starting. They may include costs for advertising, travel,
Instructions for Certain Information Returns.
                                                                  surveys, and training. These costs are generally capital
 • Failure to file information returns. A penalty applies         expenses.
    if you do not file information returns by the due date, if
    you do not include all required information, or if you re-       You usually recover costs for a particular asset (such as
    port incorrect information.                                   machinery or office equipment) through depreciation (dis-
                                                                  cussed next). You can elect to deduct up to $5,000 of
 • Failure to furnish correct payee statements. A                 business start-up costs and up to $5,000 of organizational
    penalty applies if you do not furnish a required state-       costs. The $5,000 deduction for start-up costs and the
    ment to a payee by the due date, if you do not include        $5,000 deduction for organizational costs is reduced by
    all required information, or if you report incorrect infor-   the amount your start-up or organizational costs exceed
    mation.                                                       $50,000. Any remaining costs must be amortized.
  Waiver of penalty. These penalties will not apply if              For more information about amortizing start-up and or-
you can show that the failures were due to reasonable             ganizational costs, see Instructions for Form 4562.
cause and not willful neglect.



Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                     9
Depreciation                                                   room or other separately identifiable space. The space
                                                               does not need to be marked off by a permanent partition.
If property you acquire to use in your business has a use-        You do not meet the requirements of the exclusive use
ful life that extends substantially beyond the year it is      test if you use the area in question both for business and
placed in service, you generally cannot deduct the entire      for personal purposes.
cost as a business expense in the year you acquire it. You
must spread the cost over more than one tax year and de-       Exceptions to exclusive use. You do not have to meet
duct part of it each year. This method of deducting the        the exclusive use test if either of the following applies.
cost of business property is called depreciation.               1. You use part of your home for the storage of inventory
   Business property you must depreciate includes the fol-         or product samples.
lowing items.                                                   2. You use part of your home as a daycare facility.
 • Office furniture.                                           For an explanation of these exceptions, see Pub. 587.
 • Buildings.
                                                               Principal place of business. Your home office will qual-
 • Machinery and equipment.                                    ify as your principal place of business for deducting ex-
   You can choose to deduct a limited amount of the cost       penses for its use if you meet the following requirements.
of certain depreciable property in the year you place the       • You use it exclusively and regularly for administrative
property in service. This deduction is known as the “sec-          or management activities of your trade or business.
tion 179 deduction.” For more information about deprecia-
tion and the section 179 deduction, see Pub. 946.               • You have no other fixed location where you conduct
                                                                   substantial administrative or management activities of
        Depreciation must be taken in the year it is allowa-       your trade or business.
  TIP ble. Allowable depreciation not taken in a prior
        year cannot be taken in the current year. If you do       Alternatively, if you use your home exclusively and reg-
not deduct the correct depreciation, you may be able to        ularly for your business, but your home office does not
make a correction by filing Form 1040-X, Amended U.S.          qualify as your principal place of business based on the
Individual Income Tax Return, or by changing your ac-          previous rules, you determine your principal place of busi-
counting method. For more information on how to correct        ness based on the following factors.
depreciation deductions, see chapter 1, How Do You Cor-         • The relative importance of the activities performed at
rect Depreciation Deductions?, in Pub. 946.                        each location.
                                                                • If the relative importance factor does not determine
Business Use of Your Home                                          your principal place of business, the time spent at
                                                                   each location.
To deduct expenses related to the business use of your            If, after considering your business locations, your home
home, you must meet specific requirements. However,            cannot be identified as your principal place of business,
even if you meet the requirements your deduction may still     you cannot deduct home office expenses. However, for
be limited.                                                    other ways to qualify to deduct home office expenses, see
  To qualify to claim expenses for business use of your        Pub. 587.
home, you must meet both the following tests.
                                                               Simplified method. The simplified method is an alterna-
 1. Your use of the business part of your home must be:        tive to the calculation, allocation, and substantiation of ac-
     a. Exclusive (however, see Exceptions to exclusive        tual expenses normally required to determine your home
        use, later),                                           office expense deduction. With this method, you will gen-
                                                               erally figure your deduction by multiplying $5, the prescri-
     b. Regular,                                               bed rate, by the area of your home (measured in square
     c. For your trade or business, AND                        feet) used for a qualified business. The area you use to
                                                               figure your deduction is limited to 300 square feet. For
 2. The business part of your home must be one of the          more information about the simplified method, see Reve-
    following:                                                 nue Procedure 2013-13, 2013-06 I.R.B. 478, available at
     a. Your principal place of business (defined later),      IRS.gov/irb/2013-06_IRB#RP-2013-13.

     b. A place where you meet or deal with patients, cli-     Which form do I file? If you file Schedule C (Form
        ents, or customers in the normal course of your        1040), use Form 8829, Expenses for Business Use of
        trade or business, or                                  Your Home. However, if you elect to use the simplified
                                                               method, use the Simplified Method Worksheet in the In-
     c. A separate structure (not attached to your home)       structions for Schedule C (Form 1040) or Pub. 587.
        you use in connection with your trade or business.        If you file Schedule F (Form 1040) or are a partner, you
                                                               should use the Worksheet To Figure the Deduction for
Exclusive use. To qualify under the exclusive use test,
                                                               Business Use of Your Home in Pub. 587. However, if you
you must use a specific area of your home only for your
trade or business. The area used for business can be a

10                                                                                             Publication 583 (12-2024)
elect to use the simplified method, use the Simplified
Method Worksheet in Pub. 587.
                                                                  Recordkeeping
More information. For more information about business
use of your home, see Pub. 587.                                   This part explains why you must keep records, what kinds
                                                                  of records you must keep, and how to keep them. It also
                                                                  explains how long you must keep your records for federal
Car and Truck Expenses                                            tax purposes. A sample recordkeeping system is illustra-
If you use your car or truck in your business, you can de-        ted at the end of this part.
duct the costs of operating and maintaining it. You gener-
ally can deduct either your actual expenses or the stand-         Why Keep Records?
ard mileage rate.
                                                                  Everyone in business must keep records. Good records
Actual expenses. If you deduct actual expenses, you               will help you do the following.
can deduct the cost of the following items:
                                                                  Monitor the progress of your business. You need
                                                                  good records to monitor the progress of your business.
Depreciation             Lease payments       Registration        Records can show whether your business is improving,
Garage rent              Licenses             Repairs             which items are selling, or what changes you need to
Gas                      Oil                  Tires               make. Good records can increase the likelihood of busi-
Insurance                Parking fees         Tolls               ness success.
  If you use your vehicle for both business and personal          Prepare your financial statements. You need good re-
purposes, you must divide your expenses between busi-             cords to prepare accurate financial statements. These in-
ness and personal use. You can divide your expenses               clude income (profit and loss) statements and balance
based on the miles driven for each purpose.                       sheets. These statements can help you in dealing with
                                                                  your bank or creditors and help you manage your busi-
   Example. You are the sole proprietor of a flower shop.         ness.
You drove your van 20,000 miles during the year. 16,000
miles were for delivering flowers to customers and 4,000           • An income statement shows the income and expen-
miles were for personal use. You can claim only 80%                  ses of the business for a given period of time.
(16,000 ÷ 20,000) of the cost of operating your van as a           • A balance sheet shows the assets, liabilities, and your
business expense.                                                    equity in the business on a given date.
Standard mileage rate. Instead of figuring actual expen-          Identify source of receipts. You will receive money or
ses, you may be able to use the standard mileage rate to          property from many sources. Your records can identify the
figure the deductible costs of operating your car, van,           source of your receipts. You need this information to sepa-
pickup, or panel truck for business purposes. You can use         rate business from nonbusiness receipts and taxable from
the standard mileage rate for a vehicle you own or lease.         nontaxable income.
The standard mileage rate is a specified amount of money
you can deduct for each business mile you drive. It is an-        Keep track of deductible expenses. You may forget ex-
nounced annually by the IRS. To figure your deduction,            penses when you prepare your tax return unless you re-
multiply your business miles by the standard mileage rate         cord them when they occur.
for the year.
                                                                  Prepare your tax returns. You need good records to
        Generally, if you use the standard mileage rate,          prepare your tax returns. These records must support the
  !     you cannot deduct your actual expenses. How-              income, expenses, and credits you report. Generally,
CAUTION ever, you may be able to deduct business-related
                                                                  these are the same records you use to monitor your busi-
parking fees, tolls, interest on your car loan, and certain       ness and prepare your financial statements.
state and local taxes.
                                                                  Support items reported on tax returns. You must keep
   Choosing the standard mileage rate. If you want to             your business records available at all times for inspection
use the standard mileage rate for a car you own, you must         by the IRS. If the IRS examines any of your tax returns,
choose to use it in the first year the car is available for use   you may be asked to explain the items reported. A com-
in your business. In later years, you can choose to use ei-       plete set of records will speed up the examination.
ther the standard mileage rate or actual expenses.
   If you use the standard mileage rate for a car you lease,
you must choose to use it for the entire lease period (in-
                                                                  Kinds of Records To Keep
cluding renewals).                                                Except in a few cases, the law does not require any spe-
                                                                  cific kind of records. You can choose any recordkeeping
Additional information. For more information about the
                                                                  system suited to your business that clearly shows your in-
rules for claiming car and truck expenses, see Pub. 463.
                                                                  come and expenses.


Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                 11
   The business you are in affects the type of records you       receipts, deposit slips, and canceled checks. These docu-
need to keep for federal tax purposes. You should set up         ments contain information you need to record in your
your recordkeeping system using an accounting method             books.
that clearly shows your income for your tax year. See
Choosing an Accounting Method, earlier. If you are in               It is important to keep these documents because they
more than one business, you should keep a complete and           support the entries in your books and on your tax return.
separate set of records for each business. A corporation         Keep them in an orderly fashion and in a safe place. For
should keep minutes of board of directors' meetings.             instance, organize them by year and type of income or ex-
                                                                 pense.
   Your recordkeeping system should include a summary
of your business transactions. This summary is ordinarily        Gross receipts. Gross receipts are the income you re-
made in your books (for example, accounting journals and         ceive from your business. You should keep supporting
ledgers). Your books must show your gross income, as             documents that show the amounts and sources of your
well as your deductions and credits. For most small busi-        gross receipts. Documents that show gross receipts in-
nesses, the business checkbook (discussed later) is the          clude the following.
main source for entries in the business books. In addition,       • Cash register tapes.
you must keep supporting documents, explained later.
                                                                  • Bank deposit slips.
Electronic records. All requirements that apply to hard
                                                                  • Receipt books.
copy books and records also apply to electronic storage
systems that maintain tax books and records. When you             • Invoices.
replace hard copy books and records, you must maintain            • Credit card charge slips.
the electronic storage systems for as long as they are ma-
terial to the administration of tax law. An electronic storage    • Forms 1099-MISC.
system is any system for preparing or keeping your re-            • Forms 1099-NEC.
cords either by electronic imaging or by transfer to an
electronic storage media. The electronic storage system          Inventory. Inventory is any item you buy and resell to
must index, store, preserve, retrieve, and reproduce the         customers. If you are a manufacturer or producer, this in-
electronically stored books and records in legible format.       cludes the cost of all raw materials or parts purchased for
All electronic storage systems must provide a complete           manufacture into finished products. Your supporting docu-
and accurate record of your data that is accessible to the       ments should show the amount paid and that the amount
IRS. Electronic storage systems are also subject to the          was for inventory. Documents reporting the cost of inven-
same controls and retention guidelines as those imposed          tory include the following.
on your original hard copy books and records.                     • Canceled checks.
   The original hard copy books and records may be de-
stroyed provided that the electronic storage system has           • Cash register tape receipts.
been tested to establish that the hard copy books and re-         • Credit card sales slips.
cords are being reproduced in compliance with IRS re-
quirements for an electronic storage system and proce-            • Invoices.
dures are established to ensure continued compliance             These records will help you determine the value of your in-
with all applicable rules and regulations. You still have the    ventory at the end of the year. See Pub. 538 for informa-
responsibility of retaining any other books and records          tion on methods for valuing inventory.
that are required to be retained.
   The IRS may test your electronic storage system, in-          Expenses. Expenses are the costs you incur (other than
cluding the equipment used, indexing methodology, soft-          the cost of inventory) to carry on your business. Your sup-
ware and retrieval capabilities. This test is not considered     porting documents should show the amount paid and that
an examination and the results must be shared with you. If       the amount was for a business expense. Documents for
your electronic storage system meets the requirements            expenses include the following.
mentioned earlier, you will be in compliance. If not, you         • Canceled checks.
may be subject to penalties for non-compliance, unless
you continue to maintain your original hard copy books            • Cash register tapes.
and records in a manner that allows you and the IRS to            • Account statements.
determine your correct tax.
   For details on electronic storage system requirements,         • Credit card sales slips.
see Revenue Procedure 97-22, available at IRS.gov/Tax-            • Invoices.
Exempt-Bonds/Revenue-Procedures.
                                                                  • Petty cash slips for small cash payments.
Supporting Documents
Purchases, sales, payroll, and other transactions you have
in your business generate supporting documents. Sup-
porting documents include sales slips, paid bills, invoices,

12                                                                                              Publication 583 (12-2024)
        A petty cash fund allows you to make small pay-                                        THEN the statement must
 TIP ments without having to write checks for small              IF payment is by...           show the...
          amounts. Each time you make a payment from
this fund, you should make out a petty cash slip and at-         Check                          • Check number.
tach it to your receipt as proof of payment.                                                    • Amount.
                                                                                                • Payee's name.
   Travel, transportation, and gift expenses. Specific                                          • Date the check amount
recordkeeping rules apply to these expenses. For more in-                                          was posted to the
formation, see Pub. 463.                                                                           account by the financial
                                                                                                   institution.
   Employment taxes. There are specific employment
tax records you must keep. For a list, see Pub. 15.              Electronic funds transfer      • Amount transferred.
                                                                                                • Payee's name.
Assets. Assets are the property, such as machinery and                                          • Date the transfer was
furniture you own and use in your business. You must                                               posted to the account by
keep records to verify certain information about your busi-                                        the financial institution.
ness assets. You need records to figure the annual depre-
ciation and the gain or loss when you sell the assets. Your
                                                                 Credit card                    • Amount charged.
                                                                                                • Payee's name.
records should show the following information.
                                                                                                • Transaction date.
 • When and how you acquired the asset.
                                                                          Proof of payment of an amount, by itself, does not
 • Purchase price.                                                        establish you are entitled to a tax deduction. You
 • Cost of any improvements.
                                                                   !
                                                                 CAUTION should also keep other documents, such as credit

                                                                 card sales slips and invoices, to show that you also incur-
 • Section 179 deduction taken.                                  red the cost.
 • Deductions taken for depreciation.
 • Deductions taken for casualty losses, such as losses          Recording Business Transactions
    resulting from fires or storms.
                                                                 A good recordkeeping system includes a summary of your
 • How you used the asset.
                                                                 business transactions. (Your business transactions are
 • When and how you disposed of the asset.                       shown on the supporting documents just discussed.)
 • Selling price.                                                Business transactions are ordinarily summarized in books
                                                                 called journals and ledgers. You can buy them over the In-
 • Expenses of sale.                                             ternet and at your local stationery or office supply store.
  The following documents may show this information.
                                                                    A journal is a book where you record each business
 • Purchase and sales invoices.                                  transaction shown on your supporting documents. You
 • Real estate closing statements.                               may have to keep separate journals for transactions that
                                                                 occur frequently.
 • Canceled checks.
                                                                   A ledger is a book that contains the totals from all of
What if I don't have a canceled check? If you do not             your journals. It is organized into different accounts.
have a canceled check, you may be able to prove pay-
ment with certain financial account statements prepared            Whether you keep journals and ledgers and how you
by financial institutions. These include account statements      keep them depends on the type of business you are in.
prepared for the financial institution by a third party. These   For example, a recordkeeping system for a small business
account statements must be highly legible. The following         might include the following items.
table lists acceptable account statements.
                                                                  • Business checkbook.
                                                                  • Daily summary of cash receipts.
                                                                  • Monthly summary of cash receipts.
                                                                  • Check disbursements journal.
                                                                  • Depreciation worksheet.
                                                                  • Employee compensation record.
                                                                 The business checkbook is explained next. The other
                                                                 items are illustrated later under Recordkeeping System
                                                                 Example.




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                     13
          The system you use to record business transac-          After checking your figures, the result should agree with
 TIP tions will be more effective if you follow good re-       your checkbook balance at the end of the month. If the re-
         cordkeeping practices. For example, record ex-        sult does not agree, you may have made an error in re-
penses when they occur, and identify the source of             cording a check or deposit. You can find the error by doing
recorded receipts. Generally, it is best to record transac-    the following.
tions on a daily basis.
                                                                1. Adding the amounts on your check stubs and com-
                                                                   paring that total with the total in the “amount of check”
Business checkbook. One of the first things you should             column in your check disbursements journal. If the to-
do when you start a business is open a business checking           tals do not agree, check the individual amounts to see
account. You should keep your business account separate            if an error was made in your check stub record or in
from your personal checking account.                               the related entry in your check disbursements journal.
    The business checkbook is your basic source of infor-
mation for recording your business expenses. You should         2. Adding the deposit amounts in your checkbook. Com-
deposit all daily receipts in your business checking ac-           pare that total with the monthly total in your cash re-
count. You should check your account for errors by recon-          ceipt book, if you have one. If the totals do not agree,
ciling it. See Reconciling the checking account, later.            check the individual amounts to find any errors.
    Consider using a checkbook that allows enough space           If your checkbook and journal entries still disagree, then
to identify the source of deposits as business income, per-    refigure the running balance in your checkbook to make
sonal funds, or loans. You should also note on the deposit     sure additions and subtractions are correct.
slip the source of the deposit and keep copies of all slips.      When your checkbook balance agrees with the balance
    You should make all payments by check to document          figured from the journal entries, you may begin reconciling
business expenses. Write checks payable to yourself only       your checkbook with the bank statement. Many banks
when making withdrawals from your business for personal        print a reconciliation worksheet on the back of the state-
use. Avoid writing checks payable to cash. If you must         ment.
write a check for cash to pay a business expense, include         To reconcile your account, follow these steps.
the receipt for the cash payment in your records. If you
cannot get a receipt for a cash payment, you should make        1. Compare the deposits listed on the bank statement
an adequate explanation in your records at the time of             with the deposits shown in your checkbook. Note all
payment.                                                           differences in the dollar amounts.
          Use the business account for business purposes        2. Compare each canceled check, including both check
 TIP only. Indicate the source of deposits and the type            number and dollar amount, with the entry in your
          of expense in the checkbook.                             checkbook. Note all differences in the dollar amounts.
                                                                   Mark the check number in the checkbook as having
   Reconciling the checking account. When you re-                  cleared the bank. After accounting for all checks re-
ceive your bank statement, make sure the statement, your           turned by the bank, those not marked in your check-
checkbook, and your books agree. The statement balance             book are your outstanding checks.
may not agree with the balance in your checkbook and
                                                                3. Prepare a bank reconciliation. One is illustrated later
books if the statement:
                                                                   under Recordkeeping System Example.
 • Includes bank charges you did not enter in your books
      and subtract from your checkbook balance, or              4. Update your checkbook and journals for items shown
                                                                   on the reconciliation as not recorded (such as service
 • Does not include deposits made after the statement              charges) or recorded incorrectly.
      date or checks that did not clear your account before
      the statement date.                                      At this point, the adjusted bank statement balance should
                                                               equal your adjusted checkbook balance. If you still have
     By reconciling your checking account, you will:           differences, check the previous steps to find the errors.
 • Verify how much money you have in the account,
 • Make sure that your checkbook and books reflect all
      bank charges and the correct balance in the checking
      account, and
 • Correct any errors in your bank statement, checkbook,
      and books.
          You should reconcile your checking account each
 TIP month.

  Before you reconcile your monthly bank statement,
check your own figures. Begin with the balance shown in
your checkbook at the end of the previous month. To this
balance, add the total cash deposited during the month
and subtract the total cash disbursements.

14                                                                                            Publication 583 (12-2024)
                                                                    General Journal
Bookkeeping System
                                                                      Date      Description of Entry         Debit        Credit
You must decide whether to use a single-entry or a dou-
ble-entry bookkeeping system. The single-entry system of
bookkeeping is the simplest to maintain, but it may not be          Oct. 5     Rent expense                  780.00
suitable for everyone. You may find the double-entry sys-
tem better because it has built-in checks and balances to                      Cash                                       780.00
assure accuracy and control.

Single-entry. A single-entry system is based on the in-
come statement (profit or loss statement). It can be a sim-
ple and practical system if you are starting a small busi-
ness. The system records the flow of income and
expenses through the use of:                                        Computerized System
 1. A daily summary of cash receipts, and                           There are computer software packages you can use for
 2. Monthly summaries of cash receipts and disburse-                recordkeeping. They can be purchased over the Internet
    ments.                                                          and in many retail stores. These packages are very helpful
                                                                    and relatively easy to use; they require very little knowl-
Double-entry. A double-entry bookkeeping system uses                edge of bookkeeping and accounting.
journals and ledgers. Transactions are first entered in a
journal and then posted to ledger accounts. These ac-                   If you use a computerized system, you must be able to
counts show income, expenses, assets (property a busi-              produce sufficient legible records to support and verify en-
ness owns), liabilities (debts of a business), and net worth        tries made on your return and determine your correct tax
(excess of assets over liabilities). You close income and           liability. To meet this qualification, the machine-sensible
expense accounts at the end of each tax year. You keep              records must reconcile with your books and return. These
asset, liability, and net worth accounts open on a perma-           records must provide enough detail to identify the underly-
nent basis.                                                         ing source documents.
   In the double-entry system, each account has a left
side for debits and a right side for credits. It is self-balanc-       You must also keep all machine-sensible records and a
ing because you record every transaction as a debit entry           complete description of the computerized portion of your
in one account and as a credit entry in another.                    recordkeeping system. This documentation must be suffi-
   Under this system, the total debits must equal the total         ciently detailed to show all of the following items.
credits after you post the journal entries to the ledger ac-         • Functions being performed as the data flows through
counts. If the amounts do not balance, you have made an                the system.
error and you must find and correct it.
   An example of a journal entry exhibiting a payment of             • Controls used to ensure accurate and reliable pro-
rent in October is shown next.                                          cessing.
                                                                     • Controls used to prevent the unauthorized addition, al-
                                                                        teration, or deletion of retained records.
                                                                     • Charts of accounts and detailed account descriptions.
                                                                    For more information, see Revenue Procedure 98-25 in
                                                                    Cumulative Bulletin 1998-1, available at IRS.gov/
                                                                    Businesses/Automated-Records.
Table 3. Period of Limitations

 IF you...                                                                                         THEN the period is...
 1. Owe additional tax and situations (2), (3), and (4), below, do not apply to you                3 years
 2. Do not report income that you should report and it is more than 25% of the gross               6 years
    income shown on the return
 3. File a fraudulent return                                                                       Not limited
 4. Do not file a return                                                                           Not limited
 5. File a claim for credit or refund after you filed your return                                  Later of: 3 years or
                                                                                                   2 years after tax
                                                                                                   was paid
 6. File a claim for a loss from worthless securities or a bad debt deduction                      7 years

Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                      15
How Long To Keep Records                                         the Change and Petty Cash Fund at the beginning of the
                                                                 day.
You must keep your records as long as they may be nee-
ded for the administration of any provision of the Internal         Henry takes the cash sales entry from his cash register
Revenue Code. Generally, this means you must keep re-            tape. If he had no cash register, he would simply total his
cords that support an item of income or deduction on a re-       cash sale slips and any other cash received that day.
turn until the period of limitations for that return runs out.
                                                                    He carries the total receipts shown in this summary for
   The period of limitations is the period of time in which      January 3 ($267.80), including cash sales ($263.60) and
you can amend your return to claim a credit or refund, or        sales tax ($4.20), to the Monthly Summary of Cash Re-
the IRS can assess additional tax. Table 3 contains the          ceipts.
periods of limitations that apply to income tax returns. Un-
less otherwise stated, the years refer to the period after       Petty cash fund. Henry uses a petty cash fund to make
the return was filed. Returns filed before the due date are      small payments without having to write checks for small
treated as filed on the due date.                                amounts. Each time he makes a payment from this fund,
        Keep copies of your filed tax returns. They help in      he makes out a petty cash slip and attaches it to his re-
 TIP preparing future tax returns and making computa-            ceipt as proof of payment. He sets up a fixed amount
        tions if you file an amended return.                     ($50) in his petty cash fund. The total of the unspent petty
                                                                 cash and the amounts on the petty cash slips should
                                                                 equal the fixed amount of the fund. When the totals on the
Employment taxes. If you have employees, you must
                                                                 petty cash slips approach the fixed amount, he brings the
keep all employment tax records for at least 4 years after
                                                                 cash in the fund back to the fixed amount by writing a
the date the tax becomes due or is paid, whichever is
                                                                 check to “Petty Cash” for the total of the outstanding slips.
later. For more information about recordkeeping for em-
                                                                 (See the Check Disbursements Journal entry for check
ployment taxes, see Pub. 15.
                                                                 number 92.) This restores the fund to its fixed amount of
Assets. Keep records relating to property until the period       $50. He then summarizes the slips and enters them in the
of limitations expires for the year in which you dispose of      proper columns in the monthly check disbursements jour-
the property in a taxable disposition. You must keep these       nal.
records to figure any depreciation, amortization, or deple-
tion deduction, and to figure your basis for computing gain      2. Monthly Summary of Cash Receipts
or loss when you sell or otherwise dispose of the property.
   Generally, if you received property in a nontaxable ex-       This shows the income activity for the month. Henry car-
change, your basis in that property is the same as the ba-       ries the total monthly net sales shown in this summary for
sis of the property you gave up, increased by any money          January ($4,865.05) to his Annual Summary.
you paid. You must keep the records on the old property,
as well as on the new property, until the period of limita-         To figure total monthly net sales, Henry reduces the to-
tions expires for the year in which you dispose of the new       tal monthly receipts by the sales tax imposed on his cus-
property in a taxable disposition.                               tomers and turned over to the state. He cannot take a de-
                                                                 duction for sales tax turned over to the state because he
Records for nontax purposes. When your records are               only collected the tax. He does not include the tax in his
no longer needed for tax purposes, do not discard them           income.
until you check to see if you have to keep them longer for
other purposes. For example, your insurance company or           3. Check Disbursements Journal
creditors may require you to keep them longer than the
IRS does.
                                                                 Henry enters checks drawn on the business checking ac-
                                                                 count in the Check Disbursements Journal each day. All
Recordkeeping System Example                                     checks are prenumbered and each check number is listed
                                                                 and accounted for in the column provided in the journal.
This example illustrates a single-entry system used by
Henry Brown, who is the sole proprietor of a small auto-            Frequent expenses have their own headings across the
mobile body shop. Henry uses part-time help, has no in-          sheet. He enters in a separate column expenses that re-
ventory of items held for sale, and uses the cash method         quire comparatively numerous or large payments each
of accounting.                                                   month, such as materials, gross payroll, and rent. Under
  These sample records should not be viewed as a rec-            the General Accounts column, he enters small expenses
ommendation of how to keep your records. They are inten-         that normally have only one or two monthly payments,
ded only to show how one business keeps its records.             such as licenses and postage.

1. Daily Summary of Cash Receipts                                  Henry does not pay personal or nonbusiness expenses
                                                                 by checks drawn on the business account. If he did, he
This summary is a record of cash sales for the day. It ac-       would record them in the journal, even though he could
counts for cash at the end of the day over the amount in         not deduct them as business expenses.

16                                                                                              Publication 583 (12-2024)
   Henry carries the January total of expenses for materi-     6. Depreciation Worksheet
als ($1,083.50) to the Annual Summary. Similarly, he en-
ters the monthly total of expenses for telephone, truck/       This worksheet shows the information used in figuring the
auto, etc., in the appropriate columns of that summary.        depreciation allowed on assets used in Henry's business.
                                                               Henry figures the depreciation using the modified acceler-
4. Employee Compensation Record                                ated cost recovery system (MACRS). He purchased and
                                                               placed in service several used assets that do not qualify
This record shows the following information.                   for the section 179 deduction. Depreciation and the sec-
 • The number of hours Henry's employee worked in a            tion 179 deduction are discussed in Pub. 946. Henry uses
   pay period.                                                 the information in the worksheet to complete Form 4562,
                                                               Depreciation and Amortization (not illustrated).
 • The employee's total pay for the period.
 • The deductions Henry withheld in figuring the employ-       7. Bank Reconciliation
   ee's net pay.
 • The monthly gross payroll.                                  Henry reconciles his checkbook with his bank statement
                                                               and prepares a bank reconciliation for January as follows.
Henry carries the January gross payroll ($520) to the An-
nual Summary.                                                   1. Henry begins by entering his bank statement balance.
                                                                2. Henry compares the deposits listed on the bank state-
5. Annual Summary                                                  ment with deposits shown in his checkbook. Two de-
                                                                   posits shown in his checkbook— $701.33 and
This annual summary of monthly cash receipts and ex-
                                                                   $516.08—were not on his bank statement. He enters
pense totals provides the final amounts to enter on
                                                                   these two amounts on the bank reconciliation. He
Henry's tax return. He figures the cash receipts total from
                                                                   adds them to the bank statement balance of
the total of monthly cash receipts shown in the Monthly
                                                                   $1,458.12 to arrive at a subtotal of $2,675.53.
Summary of Cash Receipts. He figures the expense totals
from the totals of monthly expense items shown in the           3. After comparing each canceled check with his check-
Check Disbursements Journal. As in the journal, he keeps           book, Henry found four outstanding checks totaling
each major expense in a separate column.                           $526.50. He subtracts this amount from the subtotal
                                                                   in (2). The result of $2,149.03 is the adjusted bank
   Henry carries the cash receipts total shown in the an-          statement balance.
nual summary ($47,440.95) to Part I of Schedule C (Form
1040) (not illustrated). He carries the total for materials     4. Henry enters his checkbook balance on the bank rec-
($10,001.00) to Part II of Schedule C (Form 1040).                 onciliation.
         A business that keeps materials and supplies on        5. Henry discovered that he mistakenly entered a de-
         hand generally must complete the inventory lines          posit of $600.40 in his checkbook as $594.40. He
  !
 CAUTION in Part III of Schedule C (Form 1040). However,           adds the difference ($6.00) to the checkbook balance
there are no inventories of materials and supplies in this         of $2,153.03. There was a $10.00 bank service
example. Henry buys parts and supplies on a per-job ba-            charge on his bank statement that he subtracts from
sis; he does not keep them on hand.                                the checkbook balance. The result is the adjusted
                                                                   checkbook balance of $2,149.03. This equals his ad-
   Henry enters annual totals for interest, rent, taxes, and       justed bank statement balance computed in (3).
wages on the appropriate lines in Part II of Schedule C
(Form 1040). The total for taxes and licenses includes the        The only book adjustment Henry needs to make is to
employer's share of social security and Medicare taxes,        the Check Disbursements Journal for the $10 bank serv-
and the business license fee. He enters the total of other     ice charge. He does not need to adjust the Monthly Sum-
annual business expenses on the “Other expenses” line of       mary of Cash Receipts because he correctly entered the
Schedule C (Form 1040).                                        January 8 deposit of $600.40 in that record.




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                             17
Daily Cash Receipts
                      1. Daily Summary of Cash Receipts

                      Date          January 3, 20 —

                      Cash sales                                               263.60

                      Sales tax                                                    4.20

                                                    TOTAL RECEIPTS             267.80

                      Cash on hand

                             Cash in register (including unspent petty cash)

                                  Coins                     23.75

                                  Bills                    143.00

                                  Checks                   134.05
                                                                               䊲
                             TOTAL CASH IN REGISTER                            300.80

                      Add: Petty cash slips                                        17.00

                                                       TOTAL CASH              317.80

                      Less: Change and petty cash

                             Petty cash slips               17.00

                             Coins and bills               33.00
                             (unspent petty cash)
                                                                               䊲
                      TOTAL CHANGE AND PETTY CASH FUND                          50.00

                                            TOTAL CASH RECEIPTS                267.80




18                                                                                         Publication 583 (12-2024)
2. Monthly Summary of Cash Receipts
           Year    20—   Month    January


                  Day       Net Sales       Sales Tax      Daily Receipts    Deposit

                   3              263.60            4.20            267.80

                   4              212.00            3.39            215.39

                   5              194.40            3.10            197.50       680.69

                   6              222.40            3.54            225.94

                   7              231.15            3.68            234.83

                   8              137.50            2.13            139.63       600.40

                  10              187.90            2.99            190.89

                  11              207.56            3.31            210.87       401.76

                  12              128.95            2.05            131.00

                  13              231.40            3.77            235.17

                  14              201.28            3.21            204.49

                  15               88.01            1.40             89.41       660.07

                  17              210.95            3.36            214.31

                  18              221.80            3.53            225.33       439.64

                  19              225.15            3.59            228.74

                  20              221.93            3.52            225.45

                  21              133.53            2.13            135.66       589.85

                  22              130.84            2.08            132.92

                  24              216.37            3.45            219.82       352.74

                  25              220.05            3.50            223.55

                  26              197.80            3.15            200.95

                  27              272.49            4.34            276.83       701.33

                  28              150.64            2.40            153.04

                  29              224.05            3.56            227.61

                  31              133.30            2.13            135.43       516.08

           TOTALS                4,865.05          77.51          4,942.56      4,942.56




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                  19
3. Check Disbursements Journal
Year 20—         Month January


                                                                           Federal
                                                                           Withheld FICA Social      FICA
                                Check   Amount of                Gross     Income     Security      Medicare
     Day         Paid To          #      Check       Materials   Payroll      Tax     Reserve       Reserve
      3    Dale Advertising      74          85.00
      4    City Treasurer        75          35.00
      4    Auto Parts, Inc.      76         203.00      203.00
      4    John E. Marks         77         214.11               260.00      (20.00)      (16.12)        (3.77)
      6    Henry Brown           78         250.00
      6    Mike's Deli           79          36.00
      6    Joe's Service         80          74.50       29.50
           Station
      6    ABC Auto Paint        81         137.50      137.50
      7    Henry Brown           82         225.00
     14    Telephone Co.         83          27.00
           National Bank (Tax
     15    Deposit)              84         119.56                            40.00        32.24          7.54
     18    National Bank         85          90.09
     18    Auto Parts, Inc.      86         472.00      472.00
     18    Henry Brown           87         275.00
     18    John E. Marks         88         214.11               260.00      (20.00)      (16.12)        (3.77)
     21    Electric Co.          89         175.30
     21    M.B. Ignition         90          66.70       66.70
     21    Baker's Fender Co.    91           9.80        9.80
     21    Petty Cash            92          17.00       15.00
     21    Henry Brown           93         225.00
     25    Baker's Fender Co.    94         150.00      150.00
     25    Enterprise            95         300.00
           Properties
     25    State Treasurer       96          12.00
     25    State Treasurer       97          65.00
                                          3,478.67    1,083.50 520.00        -0-          -0-            -0-
           Bank service                      10.00
           charge
TOTALS                                    3,488.67    1,083.50 520.00        -0-          -0-           -0-




20                                                                                     Publication 583 (12-2024)
3. Check Disbursements Journal (Continued)



    State   Employer's
  Withheld    FICA                                                Truck/
 Income Tax    Tax     Electric Interest     Rent     Telephone    Auto    Drawing    General Accounts
                                                                                     Advertising      85.00
                                                                                     License          35.00


     (6.00)
                                                                            250.00
                                                                                     Holiday Party    36.00
                                                                  45.00


                                                                            225.00
                                                         27.00
                   39.78
                                     18.09                                           Loan             72.00


                                                                            275.00
    (6.00)
                            175.30



                                                                                     Postage           2.00
                                                                            225.00


                                             300.00
    12.00
                                                                                     Sales Tax        65.00
    -0-            39.78 175.30      18.09   300.00      27.00    45.00     975.00                   295.00
                                                                                                      10.00
    -0-            39.78 175.30      18.09   300.00      27.00    45.00     975.00                   305.00




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                21
Employee Compensation
 4. Employee Compensation Record

Name             John E. Marks                                                                Full Time            Soc. Sec. No.           567-00-8901

Address          1 Elm St., Anytown, NJ 07101                                                                      Date of Birth           12-21-65
                                                                                           X Part Time
Phone            555-6075                                                                                          Filing Status                          Single


                     Hours Worked                                                Earnings                            Deductions
Pay                                                           Total                                                                               Federal       State
Period    Date                                                Regular            Regular      Overtime               Social                       Income        Income
Ending    Paid       SMTWTFS          SMTWTFS                 Hours     Overtime Rate         Rate     Total         Security     Medicare        Tax           Tax            Net Pay
1-1        1-4        5 555             5 546                   40                $6.50            .    $260.00 $16.12 $3.77 $20.00 $6.00 $214.11
1 - 15 1 - 18 4 4 4 4 4 2               43443                   40                $6.50            .    $260.00 $16.12 $3.77 $20.00 $6.00 $214.11
                                                                80                     .           .    $520.00 $32.24 $7.54 $40.00 $12.00 $428.22




                                                                                       .           .          .            .          .   .        .  .
                             QUARTERLY TOTALS                                          .           .    $1,262.40 $78.23 $18.31 $100.00 $30.00 $1,035.86

5. Annual Summary

                  Cash       Materials/ Gross     FICA        Bank                                                           Truck/               Office   Taxes/
Month             Receipts   Supplies Payroll     Taxes       Charges Electric   Interest    Insurance Rent       Telephones Auto     Advertising Expenses Licenses Misc.

January          $4,865.05 $1,083.50 $520.00 $39.78 $10.00 $175.30 $18.09                         .    $300.00 $27.00 $45.00 $85.00 $36.00 $100.00 $2.00
 February         3,478.32 874.93 235.40 17.68 7.50 153.10 18.09 210.00 300.00 21.50 28.50                                                    .             .            .           .
 March            3,942.00 724.90 507.00 38.08 11.25 145.81 18.09                                  .   300.00 32.10 51.30                     .             .            .           .




 December 3,656.52 609.23 520.00 39.78 10.00 169.00 18.09                                          .   300.00 23.13 37.62                         .   4.00               .       71.91
     TOTALS $47,440.95 $10,001.00 $5,434.00 $408.09 $92.30 $1,642.37 $217.08 $420.00 $3,600.00 $324.09 $571.46 $85.00 $40.00 $218.00 $344.00



6. Depreciation Worksheet
                                                                             Section 179
                                                               Business/     Deduction   Depreci-
                               Date Placed      Cost or        Investment    and Special ation Prior Basis for    Method/                 Recovery        Rate or            Depreciation
Description of Property        in Service       Other Basis    Use %         Allowance   Years       Depreciation Convention              Period          Table %            Deduction
 Used Equipment—
 Transmission Jack                  1-3          3,000            100%           —             —          3,000 200 DB/HY                    7              14.29%              $429

 Used Pickup Truck                  1-3          8,000            100%           —             —          8,000 200 DB/HY                    5              20%
 Used Heavy Duty                                                                               —
 Tow Truck                          1-3         30,000            100%           —                      30,000 200 DB/HY                     5              20%
 Used Equipment—
 Engine Hoist                       1-3          4,000            100%           —             —          4,000 200 DB/HY                    7              14.29%                572
                                                                                                                                                                               $8,601




22                                                                                                                                        Publication 583 (12-2024)
Bank Reconciliation
                            7. Bank Reconciliation as of

                            Date          January 31, 20 —

                            Closing balance shown on bank statement       1,458.12

                            Add deposits not credited:
                                                 1/28          701.33
                                                 1/31         516.08
                                                                           䊲
                                      TOTAL DEPOSITS NOT CREDITED         1,217.41

                            Subtotal                                      2,675.53

                            Subtract outstanding checks:


                                       No.       90            66.70

                                                 91                9.80

                                                 94            150.00

                                                 95           300.00
                                                                           䊲
                                   TOTAL OUTSTANDING CHECKS                526.50

                            Adjusted balance per bank statement           2,149.03



                            Balance shown in checkbook                    2,153.03

                                          Deposit of $600.40 for
                                   Add:   1/8 entered as                       6.00
                                          $594.40 (difference)
                                                                          2,159.03



                                   Subtract: Bank service charge             10.00

                            Adjusted checkbook balance                    2,149.03




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                             23
                                                                     offered by the Department of Defense through Military
How To Get Tax Help                                                  OneSource. For more information, go to
                                                                     MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
                                                                        Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-           be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,          come.
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.                                          Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
                                                                  IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,                • IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment                     you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or          tax filing needs.
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);                 • The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from               EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-               earned income credit (EIC).
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you          • The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to      get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
prepare your return.                                                 cost.
                                                                   • The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-              makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-           tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.                       check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
 • Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-        ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
     dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly         • The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
     and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for         (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
     taxpayers in participating states who have relatively           your repayments and account balance.
     simple tax returns reporting certain types of income
     and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Di-        • The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/
     rect File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a       SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
     participating state, Direct File guides you to a                itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
     state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file                 Getting answers to your tax questions. On
     your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile             IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
     for more information, program updates, and frequently                current events and changes in tax law.
     asked questions.
                                                                   • IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
 • Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your            swers to some of the most common tax questions.
     federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
     ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax          • IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
     preparation may not be available through Free File. Go          will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
     to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online       vide answers on a number of tax topics.
     federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or      • IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
     payment options.                                                tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
 • VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)                  changes and interactive links to help you find answers
     program offers free tax help to people with                     to your questions.
     low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,           • You may also be able to access tax information in your
     and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need                 e-filing software.
     help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
     VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
     800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-       Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
     ration.                                                      various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
                                                                  agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
 • TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-             and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
     gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly    If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
     those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-          choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
     teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
     sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.        • Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-
     Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app               racy of your return,
     for information on free tax return preparation.               • Required to sign the return, and
 • MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-             • Required to include their preparer tax identification
   fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service                  number (PTIN).

24                                                                                               Publication 583 (12-2024)
         Although the tax preparer always signs the return,    Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
  !      you're ultimately responsible for providing all the   Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
 CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately   receive certain types of written correspondence in the fol-
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-     lowing formats.
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
                                                                • Standard Print.
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-       • Large Print.
parer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.       • Braille.
                                                                • Audio (MP3).
Employers can register to use Business Services On-
                                                                • Plain Text File (TXT).
line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure     • Braille Ready File (BRF).
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax             Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax               available disaster tax relief.
Statement.                                                     Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a          Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instruc-
partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax in-    tions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
formation on record with the IRS and do more with a busi-      IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
ness tax account. Go to IRS.gov/businessaccount for            Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS Online Ac-
more information.                                              count (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the         signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest    online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-    your documents to support your submission. Go to
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our   IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-    Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
mation with you. Don’t post your social security number        format. Download and view most tax publications and in-
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media        structions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social      mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
networking site.                                                  IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
   The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, in-       iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
formative videos on various tax-related topics in English,     eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
Spanish, and ASL.                                              as intended.
 • Youtube.com/irsvideos.
                                                               Access your online account (individual taxpayers
 • Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.                           only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access infor-
 • Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.                                   mation about your federal tax account.

Online tax information in other languages. You can              • View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
                                                                  year.
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.                                           • See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
                                                                  plan.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The
IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English      • Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Serv-         and any pending or scheduled payments.
ice is a federally funded program and is available at Tax-      • Access your tax records, including key data from your
payer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and            most recent tax return, and transcripts.
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is acces-
sible in more than 350 languages.
                                                                • View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
                                                                • Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with               fessionals.
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about ac-
cessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessi-        • View your address on file or manage your communica-
bility Helpline can answer questions related to current and       tion preferences.
future accessibility products and services available in al-    Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
ternative media formats (for example, braille, large print,    you can access a variety of information to help you during
audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have ac-     the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
cess to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or   most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.


Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                              25
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/        accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how
Account.                                                        to make a payment using any of the following options.

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional            • IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated
submit an authorization request to access your individual          tax payment directly from your checking or savings ac-
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/             count at no cost to you.
TaxProAccount.                                                   • Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
                                                                   approved payment processor to pay online or by
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to re-            phone.
ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-      • Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment
rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also            when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,      tion software or through a tax professional.
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in        • Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If       best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank       • Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-
or credit union that can open an account online.                   dress listed on the notice or instructions.
                                                                 • Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity                  a participating retail store.
theft issues.
                                                                 • Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day
 • Tax-related identity theft happens when someone                 wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
     steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.         cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
     Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
     fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.             Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
 • The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by           ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
     email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-    phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
     phone calls, or social media channels to request or        safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
     verify personal or financial information. This includes    faster than mailing in a check or money order.
     requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),       What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
     passwords, or similar information for credit cards,        more information about your options.
     banks, or other financial accounts.
                                                                 • Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
 • Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft             OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
     Central webpage, for information on identity theft and        ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
     data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-        you complete the online process, you will receive im-
     nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or            mediate notification of whether your agreement has
     stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related          been approved.
     identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
     take.                                                       • Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if
                                                                   you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
 • Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are            amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
     six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-          Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
     vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
     come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-         Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X
     vents someone else from filing a tax return with your      for information and updates.
     SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
                                                                Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
Ways to check on the status of your refund.                     IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amen-
 • Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.                                       ded returns.
 • Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-                  It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
     vice to check your refund status.                            !     your amended return for it to show up in our sys-
                                                                CAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
 • Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
        The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February         Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve re-
     !  for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional      ceived. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional informa-
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire     tion about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
                                                                IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the
Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax must be              Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS
remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not


26                                                                                                 Publication 583 (12-2024)
notices and letters by securely uploading required docu-        How Can TAS Help Me?
ments online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.                                                    TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
                                                                able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to re-
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),             solve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a           come to TAS. Our services are free.
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written com-
munications from the IRS in an alternative language. You         • TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), in-
                                                                    cluding individuals, businesses, and exempt organiza-
may not immediately receive written communications in
                                                                    tions. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
                                                                    problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began pro-
                                                                    and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
viding translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
                                                                    if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
communications, including notices and letters, in English
                                                                    just isn't working as it should.
until they are translated to your preferred language.
                                                                 • To get help any time with general tax topics, visit
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many ques-                 www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
tions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.            you with common tax issues and situations, such as
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about             what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a          you get a notice from the IRS.
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in ad-        • TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems
vance that you can get the service you need without long            that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic is-
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to           sues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available serv-            any personal identifiable information.)
ices, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us op-         How Do I Contact TAS?
tion and click on “Local Offices.”
                                                                TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
   ————————————————————————                                     and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:
   Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Con-
                                                                 • Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
gress.                                                           • Check your local directory, or
                                                                 • Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You                                             What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?                          The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
                                                                all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent           www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights              for
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).         more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,              and how they apply to specific situations you may encoun-
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to         ter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer          ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated        equitable way.
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.




Publication 583 (12-2024)                                                                                                   27
                     To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
Index                See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

                                           1099–NEC 8                              Penalties 9
A                                          11-C 8                                  Publications (See Tax help)
Accounting method:                         1128 5
  Accrual method 5                         2290 8                                  R
  Cash method 5                            720 8                                   Recordkeeping 11
Assistance (See Tax help)                  730 8                                   Records, how long to keep 16
                                           8300 9
B                                          8829 10                                 S
Business:                                  I-9 7                                   S corporation 3
  Expenses 9                               SS-4 4                                  Self-employment tax 6
  Start-up costs 9                         W-2 7, 9                                Social security tax 7
  Taxes 5                                  W-4 7                                   Sole proprietorship 3
  Use of car 11                            W-9 4                                   Start-up costs 9
  Use of home 10                         Forms of business 2
                                         FUTA tax 7                                T
C                                                                                  Tax help 24
C corporation 3                          G                                         Tax year 4
Car and truck expenses 11                Getting a taxpayer identification         Taxes:
Corporation 3                              number 4                                  Employment 7
                                                                                     Estimated 6
D                                        I                                           Excise 8
Depositing taxes 8                       Income tax 5, 7                             How to deposit 8
Depreciation 10                          Information returns 8                       Income 5
                                         Inventories 5                               Self-employment 6
E                                                                                    Unemployment (FUTA) 7
Employer identification number
                                         L
  (EIN) 4                                Limited liability company 3               U
Employment taxes:                                                                  Unemployment (FUTA) tax 7
  Defined 7                              M
  Records to keep 13                     Medicare tax 7
Estimated tax 6
Excise taxes 8                           O
                                         Office in home 10
F
Form:                                    P
  1099-MISC 8                            Partnership 3




28                                                                                            Publication 583 (12-2024)

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
