# p595_6

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 02:58:12  
**Original File:** p595_6.pdf

---

## Content

Contents
                                                                          Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Publication 595                                                           Important Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
(Rev. December 2024)
                                                                          Capital Construction Fund (CCF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1


Capital                                                                   How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5



Construction                                                              Future Developments

Fund for
                                                                          See IRS.gov/Pub595 for the latest information.




Commercial                                                                Introduction
                                                                          This publication discusses the fishing vessel Capital Con-

Fishers                                                                   struction Fund (CCF). The CCF is a special investment
                                                                          program administered by the National Oceanic and At-
                                                                          mospheric Administration (NOAA), National Marine Fish-
                                                                          eries Service (NMFS), and the Internal Revenue Service
                                                                          (IRS). This program allows fishers to defer paying income
                                                                          tax on certain income they invest in a CCF account and
                                                                          later use to acquire, build, or rebuild fishing vessels.
                                                                              This publication does not discuss all the tax rules that
                                                                          may apply to your fishing trade or business. For general
                                                                          information about the federal tax laws that apply to individ-
                                                                          uals, including commercial fishers, who file Schedule C
                                                                          (Form 1040), see Pub. 334, Tax Guide for Small Business.
                                                                          If your trade or business is a partnership or corporation,
                                                                          see Pub. 541, Partnerships, or Pub. 542, Corporations.



                                                                          Important Reminder
                                                                          Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
                                                                          partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
                                                                          Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
                                                                          lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
                                                                          ges that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
                                                                          these children home by looking at the photographs and
                                                                          calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recog-
                                                                          nize a child.


                                                                          Capital Construction Fund
                                                                          (CCF)
                                                                          The following sections discuss CCF accounts and the
                                                                          types of bookkeeping accounts you must maintain when
                                                                          you invest in a CCF account. They also discuss the in-
                                                                          come tax treatment of CCF deposits, earnings, and with-
                                                                          drawals.

 Get forms and other information faster and easier at:                    CCF Accounts
 • IRS.gov (English)         • IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
 • IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
 • IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)      • IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)            This section explains who can open a CCF account and
                                                                          how to use the account to defer income tax.
                                              Publication 595 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 15171E
Nov 8, 2024                              Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
Opening a CCF account. If you are a U.S. citizen and              • Be operated in the foreign or domestic trade of the
you own or lease one or more eligible vessels (defined               United States or in the fisheries of the United States.
later), you can open a CCF account. An Investment Guide
                                                                    Vessel weighing less than 5 tons. A small vessel,
showing allowable investments of your CCF money is pro-
                                                                 weighing at least 2 net tons but less than 5 net tons, must
vided with the application kit. You must open an account
                                                                 meet all the following requirements to be considered eligi-
at the approved CCF depository in the name listed on the
                                                                 ble.
CCF agreement and request that the account title include
the abbreviation “CCF.” The account must be separate              • Be built or rebuilt in the United States.
from general operating, personal savings or checking ac-          • Be owned by a U.S. citizen.
counts, and used only for approved CCF activity. You may,
of course, designate more than one depository in your             • Have a home port in the United States.
CCF agreement. However, before you open your CCF ac-              • Be operated commercially in the fisheries of the Uni-
count, you must enter into an agreement with the Secre-              ted States.
tary of Commerce through the NMFS. After entering the
agreement, additional depositories must be approved by           Deferring tax on CCF deposits and earnings. You can
NMFS. This agreement will establish the following.               use a CCF account to defer income tax by taking the fol-
    • Agreement vessels. Eligible vessels named in the           lowing actions.
      agreement that will be the basis for the deferral of in-    • Making deposits to your CCF account from taxable in-
      come tax.                                                      come.
    • Planned use of withdrawals. Use of CCF funds to ac-         • Excluding from income deposits assigned to certain
      quire, build, or rebuild a vessel.                             accounts (discussed later).
    • CCF depository. Where your CCF funds will be held.          • Making withdrawals from your CCF account when you
          You can request an application kit or get addi-            acquire, build, or rebuild fishing vessels.
          tional information from NMFS at the following ad-       • Reducing the basis of fishing vessels you acquire,
          dress.                                                     build, or rebuild to recapture amounts previously ex-
                                                                     cluded from tax.
      NOAA/NMFS, Financial Services Division, F/MB5
      Capital Construction Fund Program                                  Reporting requirements. Beginning with the tax
      1315 East-West Highway, Room 13113                          TIP year in which you establish your agreement, you
      Silver Spring, MD 20910-3282                                        must report annual deposit and withdrawal activity
                                                                 to the NMFS on NOAA Form 34-82. The Form 34-82 must
                                                                 be signed and be attached to a complete copy of the tax
         You can obtain information on the Capital Con-          return (as filed with the IRS). This form is due within 30
         struction Fund Program at the following website:        days after you file your federal income tax return even if no
         www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/funding-and-            deposits or withdrawals are made. For more information,
financial-services/capital-construction-fund-program.            contact the NMFS at the address or phone number given
                                                                 earlier.
          You can call NMFS to request an application kit or
          get additional information at 301-427-8784.
                                                                 Types of Accounts You Must Maintain
          You may apply at any time, but, to be applicable to
                                                                 Within a CCF
 TIP any given tax year, a CCF agreement must be                 This section discusses the three types of bookkeeping ac-
        executed and entered on or before the due date           counts you must maintain when you invest in a CCF ac-
(with extensions) for filing your Federal tax return for that    count. Your total CCF deposits and earnings for any given
tax year. If you decide to enter the CCF program, we urge        year are limited to the amount attributed to these three ac-
you to submit your application as soon as possible, or at        counts for that year.
least 45 days prior to your tax due date to ensure timely
execution by NMFS.                                               Capital account. The capital account consists primarily
                                                                 of amounts attributable to the following items.
Eligible vessels. There are two types of vessels that             1. Allowable depreciation deductions for agreement ves-
may be considered eligible, those weighing 5 tons or more            sels.
and those weighing less than 5 tons. For each type, cer-
tain requirements must be met.                                    2. Any nontaxable return of capital from either of the fol-
                                                                     lowing sources.
   Vessel weighing 5 tons or more. To be considered
eligible, the vessel must meet all the following require-            a. The sale or other disposition of agreement ves-
ments.                                                                  sels.
    • Be built or rebuilt in the United States.                       b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to
                                                                         agreement vessels.
    • Be documented under the laws of the United States.

2                                                                                                Publication 595 (12-2024)
 3. Any tax-exempt interest earned on state or local           Depreciation recapture. Do not report any transaction
    bonds in your CCF account.                                 that produces depreciation recapture if you deposit the net
                                                               proceeds into your CCF account. This treatment applies
Capital gain account. The capital gain account consists        to either of the following transactions.
of amounts attributable to the following items reduced by
any capital losses from assets held in your CCF account         • The sale or other disposition of an agreement vessel.
for more than 6 months.                                         • The receipt of insurance or indemnity proceeds attrib-
 1. Any capital gain from either of the following sources.        utable to an agreement vessel.

    a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels      Earnings from operations. Report earnings from the
       held for more than 6 months.                            operation of agreement vessels on your Schedule C
                                                               (Form 1040) even if you deposit part of these earnings into
    b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to         your CCF account. You subtract any part of the earnings
       agreement vessels held for more than 6 months.          you deposited into your CCF account from the amount you
 2. Any capital gain from assets held in your CCF ac-          would otherwise enter as taxable income on Form 1040 or
    count for more than 6 months.                              1040-SR, line 15 (for 2024). Next to line 15, enter “CCF”
                                                               and the amount of the deposits. Do not deduct these CCF
Ordinary income account. The ordinary income ac-               deposits on Schedule C (Form 1040).
count consists of amounts attributable to the following
items.                                                                 A deposit into your CCF may reduce your taxable
                                                                 !     income. It does not reduce your adjusted gross in-
 1. Any earnings (without regard to the carryback of any       CAUTION come.

    net operating or net capital loss) from the operation of
    agreement vessels in the fisheries of the United              Self-employment tax. You must use your net profit or
    States or in the foreign or domestic trade of the United   loss from your fishing business to figure your self-employ-
    States.                                                    ment tax. Do not reduce your net profit or loss by any
 2. Any capital gain from the following sources reduced        earnings from operations you deposit into your CCF ac-
    by any capital losses from assets held in your CCF         count.
    account for 6 months or less.                                  Partnerships. A partnership that contributes to its
    a. The sale or other disposition of agreement vessels      CCF for 2024 should include the contribution amount on
       held for 6 months or less.                              its 2024 Form 1065, Schedule K, line 13e, code AA. The
                                                               partnership should also include each partner's share on
    b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to         that partner's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Part III,
       agreement vessels held for 6 months or less.            box 13, code AA. An individual partner subtracts its share
    c. Any capital gain from assets held in your CCF ac-       from the amount that would normally be entered as taxa-
       count for 6 months or less.                             ble income on its 2024 Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. In
                                                               the margin to the left of line 15, enter “CCF” and the
 3. Any ordinary income (such as depreciation recapture)       amount of the subtraction. See the 2024 Form 1065, 2024
    from either of the following sources.                      Instructions for Form 1065, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form
    a. The sale or other disposition of agreement ves-         1065), and the 2024 Partner’s Instructions for Sched-
       sels.                                                   ule K-1 (Form 1065). A partnership that contributes to its
                                                               CCF for a year other than 2024 should use and consult
    b. Insurance or indemnity proceeds attributable to         the above items for that other year.
       agreement vessels.
                                                                   S corporations. An S corporation that contributes to
 4. Any interest (not including tax-exempt interest from       its CCF for 2024 should include the contribution amount
    state and local bonds), most dividends, and other or-      on its 2024 Form 1120-S, Schedule K, line 12e, code AA.
    dinary income earned on the assets in your CCF ac-         The S corporation should also include each shareholder's
    count.                                                     share on that shareholder's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form
                                                               1120-S), Part III, box 12, code AA. An individual share-
Tax Treatment of CCF Deposits                                  holder subtracts its share from the amount that would nor-
                                                               mally be entered as taxable income on its 2024 Form
This section explains the tax treatment of income used as      1040 or 1040-SR, line 15. In the margin to the left of
the basis for CCF deposits.                                    line 15, enter “CCF” and the amount of the subtraction.
                                                               See the 2024 Form 1120-S, 2024 Instructions for Form
Capital gains. Do not report any transaction that produ-       1120-S, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), and the 2024
ces a capital gain if you deposit the net proceeds into your   Shareholder's Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form
CCF account. This treatment applies to either of the fol-      1120-S). An S corporation that contributes to its CCF for a
lowing transactions.                                           year other than 2024 should use and consult the above
 • The sale or other disposition of an agreement vessel.       items for that other year.
 • The receipt of insurance or indemnity proceeds attrib-
   utable to an agreement vessel.

Publication 595 (12-2024)                                                                                               3
Tax Treatment of CCF Earnings                                         erated in the foreign or domestic trade of the United
                                                                      States or in the fisheries of the United States.
This section explains the tax treatment of the earnings
                                                                  How to determine the source of qualified withdraw-
from the assets in your CCF account when the earnings
                                                                  als. When you make a qualified withdrawal, the amount is
are redeposited or left in your account. However, if you
                                                                  treated as being withdrawn in the following order from the
choose to withdraw the earnings in the year earned, you
                                                                  accounts listed below.
must generally pay income tax on them.
                                                                   1. The capital account.
Capital gains. Do not report any capital gains from the
sale of capital assets held in your CCF account. This in-          2. The capital gain account.
cludes capital gain distributions reported to you on Form          3. The ordinary income account.
1099-DIV or a substitute statement. However, you should
attach a statement to your tax return to list the payers and      Excluding qualified withdrawals from tax. Do not re-
the amounts and to identify the capital gains as “CCF ac-         port on your income tax return any qualified withdrawals
count earnings.”                                                  from your CCF account.
Interest and dividends. Do not report any ordinary in-                     Reduce the depreciable basis of fishing vessels
come (such as interest and dividends) you earn on the as-           !      you acquire, build, or rebuild when you make a
                                                                   CAUTION qualified withdrawal from either the capital gain or
sets in your CCF account. However, you should attach a
statement to your return to list the payers and the amounts       the ordinary income account.
and to identify them as “CCF account earnings.”
   If you are required to file Schedule B (Form 1040), you        Nonqualified Withdrawals
can add these earnings to the list of payers and amounts
on line 1 or line 5 (for 2024) and identify them as “CCF          A nonqualified withdrawal from a CCF account is generally
earnings.” Then, subtract the same amounts from the list          any withdrawal that is not a qualified withdrawal. Qualified
and identify them as “CCF deposits.”                              withdrawals are defined under Qualified Withdrawals, ear-
   Tax-exempt interest. Do not report tax-exempt inter-           lier.
est from state or local bonds you held in your CCF ac-               Examples. Examples of nonqualified withdrawals in-
count. You are not required to report this interest on Form       clude the following amounts from either the ordinary in-
1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a (for 2024).                              come account or the capital gain account.

Tax Treatment of CCF Withdrawals                                   • Amounts remaining in a CCF account upon termina-
                                                                      tion of your agreement with NMFS.
This section discusses the tax treatment of amounts you            • Amounts you withdraw and use to make principal pay-
withdraw from your CCF account during the year.                       ments on the indebtedness of a vessel if the basis of
                                                                      that vessel and the bases of other vessels you own
Qualified Withdrawals                                                 have already been reduced to zero.
                                                                   • Amounts determined by the IRS to cause your CCF
A qualified withdrawal from a CCF account is one that is              account balance to exceed the amount appropriate to
approved by NMFS for either of the following uses.                    meet your planned use of withdrawals. You will gener-
    • Acquiring, building, or rebuilding qualified vessels (de-       ally be given 3 years to revise your plans to cover this
      fined next).                                                    excess balance.
    • Making principal payments on indebtedness incurred           • Amounts you leave in your account for more than 25
      in connection with acquiring, building, or rebuilding of        years. There is a graduated schedule under which the
      a qualified vessel.                                             percentage applied to determine the amount of the
                                                                      nonqualified withdrawal increases from 20% in the
    • NMFS will not approve amounts withdrawn to pur-                 26th year to 100% in the 30th year.
      chase nets not continuously attached to the vessel,
      such as seine nets, gill set-nets, and gill drift-nets.     How to determine the source of nonqualified with-
    • NMFS will approve amounts withdrawn to purchase             drawals. When you make a nonqualified withdrawal from
      trawl nets.                                                 your CCF account, the amount is treated as being with-
                                                                  drawn in the following order from the accounts listed be-
Qualified vessel. This is any vessel that meets all of the        low.
following requirements.
                                                                   1. The ordinary income account.
    • The vessel was built or rebuilt in the United States.
                                                                   2. The capital gain account.
    • The vessel is documented under the laws of the Uni-
      ted States.                                                  3. The capital account.

    • The person maintaining the CCF account agrees with          Paying tax on nonqualified withdrawals. In general,
      the Secretary of Commerce that the vessel will be op-       nonqualified withdrawals are taxed separately from your

4                                                                                                 Publication 595 (12-2024)
other gross income and at the highest marginal tax rate in       Reporting the additional tax and interest. Attach a
effect for the year of withdrawal. However, for taxpayers        statement to your income tax return showing your compu-
who are not corporations, nonqualified withdrawals trea-         tation of the tax and the interest on a nonqualified with-
ted as made from the capital gain account are taxed at a         drawal. Include the tax and interest on Schedule 2 (Form
rate that cannot exceed 20%.                                     1040), line 17z (for 2024). To the left of the entry space for
                                                                 line 17z, enter the amount of tax and interest and “CCF.”
   Partnerships. A partnership that makes a nonqualified
withdrawal from its CCF for 2024 should include the              Tax benefit rule. If any portion of your nonqualified with-
amount on a statement attached to its 2024 Form 1065,            drawal is properly attributable to contributions (not earn-
Schedule K, line 20c, code S. The partnership should also        ings on the contributions) you made to the CCF account
include each partner's share on that partner's 2024              that did not reduce your tax liability for any tax year prior to
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Part III, box 20, code S. An in-       the withdrawal year, the following tax treatment applies.
dividual partner should attach a statement to its federal in-
come tax return to show the computation of the tax and in-        1. The part that did not reduce your tax liability for any
terest for a nonqualified withdrawal. Include the tax and            year prior to the withdrawal year is not taxed.
interest on the 2024 Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 17z. In         2. That part is allowed as a net operating loss deduction.
the space to the left of line 17z, enter the amount of tax
and interest and “CCF.” See the 2024 Form 1065, 2024 In-
structions for Form 1065, 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form                More Information
1065), and the 2024 Partner’s Instructions for Sched-            This section briefly discusses the CCF program. For more
ule K-1 (Form 1065). A partnership that makes a nonquali-        detailed information, see the following statutory and regu-
fied withdrawal from its CCF for a year other than 2024          latory authorities.
should use and consult the above items for that other year.
                                                                  • Section 607 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as
    S corporations. An S corporation that makes a non-               amended (46 U.S.C. 53501 through 53517).
qualified withdrawal from its CCF for 2024 should include
the amount on a statement attached to its 2024 Form               • Chapter 2, Part 259 of title 50 of the Code of Federal
1120-S, Schedule K, line 17d, code Q. The S corporation              Regulations (50 C.F.R., Part 259).
should also include each shareholder's share on that              • Subchapter A, Part 3 of title 26 of the Code of Federal
shareholder's 2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), Part III,             Regulations (26 C.F.R., Part 3).
box 17, code Q. An individual shareholder should attach a
statement to its federal income tax return to show the            • Section 7518 of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC
computation of the tax and interest for a nonqualified with-         7518).
drawal. Include the tax and interest on the 2024 Schedule        The application kit you can obtain from NMFS at the ad-
2 (Form 1040), line 17z. In the space to the left of line 17z,   dress or phone number given earlier may contain copies
enter the amount of tax and interest and “CCF.” See the          of some of these sources of additional information. Also,
2024 Form 1120-S, 2024 Instructions for Form 1120-S,             see their web page at www.fisheries.noaa.gov/national/
2024 Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), and the 2024 Share-             funding-and-financial-services/capital-construction-fund-
holder's Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S). An         program.
S corporation that makes a nonqualified withdrawal from
its CCF for a year other than 2024 should use and consult
the above items for that other year.                             How To Get Tax Help
Interest. You must pay interest on the additional tax due
to nonqualified withdrawals that are treated as made from        If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
either the ordinary income or the capital gain account. The      ing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
interest period begins on the last date for paying tax for       forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
the year for which you deposited the amount you withdrew         can help you right away.
from your CCF account. The period ends on the last date          Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
for paying tax for the year in which you make the nonquali-      your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
fied withdrawal. The interest rate on the nonqualified with-     1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
drawal is simple interest. The rate is subject to change an-     compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
nually and is published in the Federal Register.                 other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
        You can also call NMFS at 301-427-8784 to get            and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
        the current interest rate.                               banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
                                                                 eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
                                                                 turn. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
  Interest deduction. You can deduct the interest you            qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
pay on a nonqualified withdrawal as a trade or business          prepare your return.
expense.



Publication 595 (12-2024)                                                                                                      5
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for pre-             • The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)
paring and filing your return online or in your local                  makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
community, if you qualify, include the following.                      tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
                                                                       check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
    • Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-
                                                                       ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
      dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly
      and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for       • The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
      taxpayers in participating states who have relatively            (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
      simple tax returns reporting certain types of income             your repayments and account balance.
      and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Di-
                                                                    • The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/
      rect File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a        SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
      participating state, Direct File guides you to a                 itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
      state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file
      your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile             Getting answers to your tax questions. On
      for more information, program updates, and frequently                IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
      asked questions.                                                     current events and changes in tax law.
    • Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your        • IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
      federal individual income tax return for free using soft-        swers to some of the most common tax questions.
      ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax          • IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
      preparation may not be available through Free File. Go           will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
      to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online        vide answers on a number of tax topics.
      federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
      payment options.                                              • IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
                                                                       tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
    • VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)                 changes and interactive links to help you find answers
      program offers free tax help to people with                      to your questions.
      low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
      and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need               • You may also be able to access tax information in your
      help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/             e-filing software.
      VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
      800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-       Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
      ration.                                                      various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
    • TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-           agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
      gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly    and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
      those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-          If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
      teers specialize in answering questions about pen-           choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
      sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.        • Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-
      Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app                racy of your return,
      for information on free tax return preparation.
                                                                    • Required to sign the return, and
    • MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
      fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service of-          • Required to include their preparer tax identification
      fered by the Department of Defense through Military              number (PTIN).
      OneSource. For more information, go to                                Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
      MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).                     you're ultimately responsible for providing all the
         Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
                                                                     !
                                                                    CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
      be completed online and then e-filed regardless of in-       prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
      come.                                                        ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
                                                                   for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to              matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.                                   parer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
    • IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
      you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
      tax filing needs.                                            Employers can register to use Business Services On-
                                                                   line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
    • The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/             line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
      EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the         W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
      earned income credit (EIC).                                  and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
    • The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you           Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
      get an employer identification number (EIN) at no            Statement.
      cost.


6                                                                                                 Publication 595 (12-2024)
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a          Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax in-    Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instruc-
formation on record with the IRS and do more with a busi-      tions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
ness tax account. Go to IRS.gov/Business-Tax-Account for       IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
more information.
                                                               Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS Online Ac-
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the         count (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest    signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-    online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our   your documents to support your submission. Go to
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-    IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
mation with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media        Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social      format. Download and view most tax publications and in-
networking site.                                               structions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
   The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, in-       mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
formative videos on various tax-related topics in English,        IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
Spanish, and ASL.                                              iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
                                                               eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
 • Youtube.com/irsvideos.                                      as intended.
 • Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
                                                               Access your online account (individual taxpayers
 • Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.                                   only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access infor-
                                                               mation about your federal tax account.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t         • View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
your native language.                                              year.

Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The              • See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
                                                                   plan.
IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Serv-       • Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
ice is a federally funded program and is available at Tax-         and any pending or scheduled payments.
payer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
                                                                • Access your tax records, including key data from your
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is acces-          most recent tax return, and transcripts.
sible in more than 350 languages.
                                                                • View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about ac-
                                                                • Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-
                                                                   fessionals.
cessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessi-
bility Helpline can answer questions related to current and     • View your address on file or manage your communica-
future accessibility products and services available in al-        tion preferences.
ternative media formats (for example, braille, large print,
audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have ac-     Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
cess to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or   you can access a variety of information to help you during
account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.               the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
                                                               most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative           income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to      Account.
receive certain types of written correspondence in the fol-
lowing formats.                                                Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
                                                               submit an authorization request to access your individual
 • Standard Print.                                             taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
 • Large Print.                                                TaxProAccount.
 • Braille.                                                    Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to re-
 • Audio (MP3).                                                ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
                                                               which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
 • Plain Text File (TXT).                                      rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
 • Braille Ready File (BRF).                                   avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
                                                               destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the          10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
available disaster tax relief.                                 you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/



Publication 595 (12-2024)                                                                                                 7
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank         • Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-
or credit union that can open an account online.                      dress listed on the notice or instructions.

Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity                  • Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
theft issues.                                                         a participating retail store.

    • Tax-related identity theft happens when someone              • Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day
      steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.           wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
      Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a        cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
      fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.              Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
    • The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by          ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
      email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-     phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
      phone calls, or social media channels to request or         safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
      verify personal or financial information. This includes     faster than mailing in a check or money order.
      requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
      passwords, or similar information for credit cards,         What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
      banks, or other financial accounts.                         more information about your options.
    • Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft          • Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
      Central webpage, for information on identity theft and          OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
      data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-          ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
      nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or              you complete the online process, you will receive im-
      stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related            mediate notification of whether your agreement has
      identity theft, you can learn what steps you should             been approved.
      take.                                                        • Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if
    • Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are            you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
      six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-            amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
      vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-         Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
      come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
                                                                  Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X
      vents someone else from filing a tax return with your
                                                                  for information and updates.
      SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
                                                                  Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
                                                                  IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amen-
    • Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.                                      ded returns.
    • Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-                 It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
      vice to check your refund status.                                   your amended return for it to show up in our sys-
                                                                    !
                                                                  CAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
    • Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
        The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
                                                                  Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve re-
     !  for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional
                                                                  ceived. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional informa-
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
                                                                  tion about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
                                                                  IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the
Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax must be                Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS
remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not       notices and letters by securely uploading required docu-
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how           ments online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
to make a payment using any of the following options.             IRS.gov/DUT.
    • IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated   Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
      tax payment directly from your checking or savings ac-      Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
      count at no cost to you.                                    preference to receive notices, letters, or other written com-
    • Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an       munications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
      approved payment processor to pay online or by              may not immediately receive written communications in
      phone.                                                      the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
                                                                  taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began pro-
    • Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment             viding translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
      when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
                                                                  communications, including notices and letters, in English
      tion software or through a tax professional.
                                                                  until they are translated to your preferred language.
    • Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
      best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.         Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many ques-
                                                                  tions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.


8                                                                                                     Publication 595 (12-2024)
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about             problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a          and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs             if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in ad-           just isn't working as it should.
vance that you can get the service you need without long
                                                                 • To get help any time with general tax topics, visit
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to           www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available serv-            you with common tax issues and situations, such as
ices, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,               what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us op-             you get a notice from the IRS.
tion and click on “Local Offices.”
   ————————————————————————                                      • TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems
                                                                    that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic is-
   Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate             sues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
Service, an independent organization established by Con-            any personal identifiable information.)
gress.
                                                                How Do I Contact TAS?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You                                             TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
                                                                and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
                                                                 • Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent            • Check your local directory, or
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,               • Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer          What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
                                                                The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
                                                                all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.
                                                                www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights              for
                                                                more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
How Can TAS Help Me?                                            and how they apply to specific situations you may encoun-
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been         ter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to re-     ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
solve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then   equitable way.
come to TAS. Our services are free.
 • TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), in-
    cluding individuals, businesses, and exempt organiza-
    tions. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS




Publication 595 (12-2024)                                                                                                   9

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
