# p957_1

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 03:04:37  
**Original File:** p957_1.pdf

---

## Content

Note: The Form, Instructions, or Publication you are looking
                for begins after this coversheet.
         Please review the updated information below.
       Change of address in Publication 957 for reporting back pay to the Social Security
                                        Administration
The address on page 2 for where to report back pay has changed. Use the following address when
reporting back pay.

   Social Security Administration
   ATTN: DEBS Back Pay Staff
   OEIO DEBS EAB 2-C-2
   6100 Wabash Avenue
   Baltimore, MD 21215-3757


This change will be included in the next revision of Publication 957.
               Department of the Treasury                        Contents
               Internal Revenue Service
                                                                 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
                                                                 1. What is Back Pay? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Publication 957                                                      Reporting Back Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
(Rev. January 2024)
Cat. No. 20985Y                                                      Back Pay Under a Statute . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                                                                     Nonstatutory Back Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3


Reporting
                                                                     Format for Report to the SSA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                                                                     Questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3


Back Pay and
                                                                 2. Special Wage Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                                                     Reporting Special Wage Payments . . . . . . . . . . . 4
                                                                     Reporting Nonstatutory (Nonqualified) Stock

Special Wage                                                           Options as Special Wage Payments . . . . . . . . . 8
                                                                     Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and
                                                                       Section 457 Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

Payments to                                                             Reporting Payments From Nonqualified
                                                                           and Nongovernmental Section 457
                                                                           Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

the Social                                                              Reporting Payments and Deferrals in the
                                                                           Same Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9


Security                                                         Future Developments
Administration                                                   For the latest information about developments related to
                                                                 Publication 957, such as legislation enacted after it was
                                                                 published, go to www.irs.gov/pub957.



                                                                 Introduction
                                                                 The Social Security Administration (SSA) has special
                                                                 rules for back pay awarded by a court or government
                                                                 agency to enforce a worker protection statute (law). The
                                                                 SSA also has rules for reporting special wage payments
                                                                 made to employees after they retire. These rules enable
                                                                 the SSA to correctly compute an employee's benefits un-
                                                                 der the social security earnings test. These rules are for
                                                                 social security coverage and benefit purposes only. This
                                                                 publication, written primarily for employers, discusses
                                                                 back pay under a statute and special wage payments. It
                                                                 also explains how to report these payments to the SSA.
                                                                 For more information, go to SSA's website at SSA.gov/
                                                                 employer. To get a copy of Form SSA-131, Employer Re-
                                                                 port of Special Wage Payments, go to SSA's website at
                                                                 SSA.gov/forms, and enter SSA-131 into the search box.


                                                                 1. What is Back Pay?
                                                                 Back pay is pay received in a tax year(s) for actual or
                                                                 deemed employment in an earlier tax year(s). For social
                                                                 security coverage and benefit purposes, all back pay,
                                                                 whether or not under a statute, is wages if it is payment for
 Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
                                                                 covered employment. Damages for personal injury, inter-
 • IRS.gov (English)         • IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)              est, penalties, and legal fees included with back pay
 • IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)         awards are not wages. Report all back pay. However, the
 • IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)      • IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)   tax year(s) for which back pay is credited as wages for

Jan 18, 2024
social security purposes is different if it is awarded under a       Social Security Administration
statute. See Back Pay Under a Statute, later, for more in-           Attn: DEBS Back Pay Staff
formation.                                                           OEIO DEBS EAB 3–A-8
                                                                     6100 Wabash Avenue
Reporting Back Pay                                                   Baltimore, MD 21215–3757

The IRS and the SSA consider back pay awards to be wa-           Be sure to send this special report to the above address
ges. However, for income tax purposes, the IRS treats all        because the SSA handles it separately from other reports.
back pay as wages in the year paid.
                                                                         If you paid the back pay award in the same tax
   Employers should use Form W-2, Wage and Tax State-             TIP year to which it applies, report the wages on that
ment, or electronic wage reports to report back pay as wa-               year's Form W-2. No further action is necessary.
ges in the year they actually pay the employee. The SSA
no longer accepts reports on tapes, cartridges, and disk-
                                                                    Example. In 2023, Judy Wilson received a salary of
ettes.
                                                                 $50,000 and a back pay under statute award of $2,000 for
   Example. In 2023, Terry Morris earned wages of                the period January through June 2023. Her employer
$80,000. In the same year, she received $100,000 in set-         properly reported wages of $52,000 for social security and
tlement of a back pay case against her employer that cov-        Medicare on her 2023 Form W-2. No further action is nec-
ered the periods January 2018 through December 2022.             essary.
Her employer properly reflected social security wages of
                                                                 Information the SSA needs to properly credit back
$160,200 and Medicare wages of $180,000 on her 2023
                                                                 pay under a statute (special report). After you com-
Form W-2.
                                                                 plete the special report, you or the employee should send
   However, if an employer did not include back pay wa-          it to the SSA when or after you submit the Form W-2 (on
ges on a previously filed Form W-2, magnetic media, or           paper or electronically) to the SSA for the year you pay the
electronically filed wage report, the employer should pre-       statutory back pay to the employee. There is no statute of
pare a wage correction report, Form W-2c, Corrected              limitations on the filing of the special report to enable the
Wage and Tax Statement, or electronically filed report, to       SSA to allocate the wages. The special report must in-
add the back pay award to the wages previously reported.         clude the following information.

   Example. If, in the above example, Terry Morris' em-           1. The employer's name, address, and employer identifi-
ployer had prepared her 2023 Form W-2 reporting social               cation number (EIN).
security and Medicare wages of only $80,000 each, the             2. A signed statement citing the federal or state statute
employer would have to correct that report. A Form W-2c              under which the payment was made. If the statute is
correcting the 2023 Form W-2 would show previously re-               not identified, the SSA will assume the payment was
ported social security and Medicare wages of $80,000                 not under a statute and will not allocate to earlier pe-
and the correct amount of $160,200 for social security wa-           riod(s).
ges and $180,000 for Medicare wages.
                                                                  3. The name and telephone number of a person to con-
SSA treatment of back pay under a statute. Under the                 tact. The SSA may have additional questions con-
law, the SSA credits back pay awarded under a statute to             cerning the back pay case or the individual employ-
an individual's earnings record in the period(s) the wages           ee's information.
should have been paid. This is important because wages
                                                                  4. A list of employees receiving the payment and the fol-
not credited to the proper year may result in lower social
                                                                     lowing information for each employee:
security benefits or failure to meet the requirements for
benefits.                                                            a. The tax year you paid and reported the back pay.
   However, back pay under statute payments will remain
                                                                      b. The employee's social security number (SSN).
posted to the employee's social security earnings record
in the year reported on Form W-2 (or Form W-2c) unless                c. The employee's name (as shown on their social
the employer or employee notifies the SSA (in a separate,                security card).
special report) of the back pay under a statute payment.
                                                                     d. The amount of the back pay award excluding any
Then, the SSA can allocate the statutory back pay to the
                                                                        amounts specifically designated otherwise, for ex-
appropriate periods.
                                                                        ample, damages for personal injury, interest, pen-
   If a back pay award is not made under a statute, the
                                                                        alties, and legal fees.
SSA credits back pay as wages in the year paid.
        If employers do notify the SSA of this payment,              e. The period(s) the back pay award covers (begin-
        they should prepare a special report (with the in-              ning and ending dates—month and year).
        formation noted below) and send it to:                        f. The other wages paid subject to social security
                                                                         and/or Medicare taxes and reported in the same
                                                                         year as the back pay award (if none, show zero)*.
                                                                         Do not include the back pay award shown in that

2                                                                                         Publication 957 (January 2024)
         wage report. If you originally submitted the report    does not change the nature of a back pay award. The pay-
         under an establishment number, show that num-          ments made in such a settlement may still be back pay
         ber and the amount of money that is to remain un-      and wages under the rules discussed here.
         der that establishment number.
      g. The amount to allocate to each reporting period*.      Nonstatutory Back Pay
         This includes any amount you want allocated (if
         applicable) to the tax year of the award payment. If   A payment for back wages negotiated between an em-
         you do not give the SSA specific amounts to allo-      ployer and employee without an award, determination, or
         cate, the SSA does the allocation by dividing the      agreement approved or sanctioned by a court or govern-
         back pay award by the number of months or years        ment agency, is not made under a statute. Delayed wage
         covered by the award.                                  payments and retroactive pay increases resulting from un-
                                                                ion negotiation or payments under local ordinances or reg-
   *Note. For periods before January 1, 1978 (before            ulations are back pay and are wages. However, they are
January 1, 1981, for state and local government employ-         not payments made under a statute.
ers covered by a Section 218 agreement), show the wage
amounts for each calendar quarter ending March 31, June           If you are uncertain whether the back pay award was
30, September 30, and December 31. For all tax years,           under a qualified statute, you may need to contact your
show and identify the social security and/or Medicare           personnel department or legal counsel or the attorney
Qualified Government Employment (MQGE) wages                    who filed the suit.
(where applicable) separately. MQGE is applicable to fed-
eral employees beginning in 1983, and for certain state         Format for Report to the SSA
and local government employees beginning in 1986. For
tax years 1991 and later, list the social security and Medi-    Use the format shown in Table 1, later, to send the SSA
care wages separately. If you originally reported the indi-     the information needed to properly credit back pay under
vidual's wages under an establishment or payroll record         a statute.
unit number, show the amount of wages to remain in the            In a cover letter, include:
award year for that number and furnish that number to the
SSA along with the EIN.                                          1. Name and address of the employer,
                                                                 2. Statute under which you paid the back pay,
Back Pay Under a Statute                                         3. Name and telephone number of the employer contact,
                                                                    and
Back pay awarded under a statute is a payment by an em-
ployer following an award, determination, or agreement           4. Signature of the reporting official.
approved or sanctioned by a court or government agency
                                                                        Under certain circumstances, back pay may be a
responsible for enforcing a federal or state statute that
protects an employee's right to employment or wages.             TIP special wage payment and excluded from wages
                                                                        counted under the social security earnings test. If
  Examples of pertinent statutes include:                       you pay back pay to an employee age 61 or older, report it
                                                                to the SSA in accordance with this section. Read Special
 • Age Discrimination in Employment Act,                        Wage Payments, later, for additional reporting instructions.
 • Americans with Disabilities Act,
 • Equal Pay Act,                                               Questions
 • Fair Labor Standards Act,
                                                                If you have questions concerning back pay under a stat-
 • National Labor Relations Act,                                ute, call the SSA at 1-800-772-6270.
 • State minimum wage laws, and                                         If the state Social Security Administrator's office
 • State statutes that protect rights to employment and                 needs more information, they can contact the
    wages.                                                              SSA at the following address:

   Payments based on laws that have a similar effect to             Social Security Administration
those listed above also may qualify as payments made                Office of Income Security Programs
under a statute.                                                    Office of Earnings, Enumeration and Medicare Policy
                                                                    6401 Security Blvd., 2514 RMD Bldg.
        Back pay awards, under some of the statutes lis-            Baltimore, MD 21235
  !     ted above, may be compensation for personal in-
CAUTION jury and not pay for employment. Such awards

are not wages for social security coverage purposes.

   If a court-approved or sanctioned settlement agree-
ment states that the agreement is not an admission of dis-
crimination, liability, or act of wrongdoing, the statement

Publication 957 (January 2024)                                                                                            3
Table 1. Format for Report (Under Covering Letter) to Request SSA to Allocate Back Pay
Under Statute Wages
Employer's EIN: xx-xxxxxxx
Tax Year in Which Award Payment Was Paid: 2023


      (1)                       (2)1                                      (3)2,3                                               (4)3
   SSN and            Award Amount and Period(s)              Other Soc. Sec./Med. Wages                                   Allocation
 Employee Name                                                    Paid In Award Year
                                                                Soc. Sec.          Med./MQGE                Year             Soc. Sec.        Med./MQGE
xxx-xx-xxxx                               $100,000                    $40,000            $40,000            2020                 $20,000            $20,000
HELEN T. SMITH          January 2020–December 2023                                                          2021                  25,000             25,000
                                                                                                            2022                  27,000             27,000
                                                                                                            2023                  28,000             28,000
xxx-xx-xxxx                                 $30,000                         -0-                -0-          2000                                      6,000
SAM W. EVANS                July 2000–December 2002                                                         2001                                     12,000
                                                                                                            2002                                     12,000
xxx-xx-xxxx                                 $15,000                         -0-                -0-      July 1991                  3,500
ROLAND S.                   July 1991–December 1992                                                   December 1991                3,500
ADAMS                                                                                                     1992                     8,000
1
 Exclude amounts specifically designated as damages, penalties, etc.
2
 Exclude the amount of back pay, if any, included in that amount.
3
  For periods before January 1, 1978 (and for state and local government (Section 218) employers before January 1, 1981), show the wage amounts by calendar
quarters. The social security and/or Medicare Qualified Government Employment (MQGE) wages (where applicable) must be shown separately FOR ALL YEARS.
(Wages subject ONLY to MQGE would be shown in the Medicare/MQGE column; no wages would be shown in the Soc. Sec. column.) For tax years 1991 and later,
the social security and Medicare wages must be listed separately.

Explanation of examples.
Helen T. Smith–The back pay award, excluding interest, was $100,000 for the periods January 2020–December 2023. In 2023, this employee was
also paid $40,000 in other wages. (Her Form W-2 for 2023 reported $140,000 for social security and $140,000 for Medicare. The SSA allocation will
result in adjusted posted wages of $68,000 for social security and $68,000 for Medicare for 2023.)
Sam W. Evans–The back pay award was $30,000 for the periods July 2000–December 2002. This employee was hired in 2000 and was subject to
MQGE only. He was no longer employed by this governmental employer in 2023. (His Form W-2 for 2023 reported $30,000 for social security and
$30,000 for Medicare. After the SSA allocation, he will not have any net posted wages for 2023.)
Roland S. Adams–The back pay award was $15,000 for the periods July 1991–December 1992. He was no longer employed by this state and local
government (Section 218) employer in 2023. (His Form W-2 for 2023 reported $15,000 for social security and $15,000 for Medicare; after the SSA
allocation, he will not have any net posted wages for 2023.)

                                                                                   • Stock options.
2. Special Wage Payments                                                             Note. Payments made after retirement that are part of
                                                                                  the normal payroll cycle should not be routinely reported
A special wage payment is an amount paid by an em-                                as special wage payments.
ployer to an employee (or former employee) for services
performed in a prior year. Employers should report to the                         Earnings test. Benefits paid to a social security benefi-
SSA special wage payments made to employees and for-                              ciary under full retirement age may be reduced if the ben-
mer employees who are recipients of social security retire-                       eficiary continues to work. The SSA uses the information
ment benefits. Special wage payments made to a retired                            in boxes 1, 3, and 5 of Form W-2 to determine the benefi-
employee receiving social security or to an employee who                          ciary's current year earnings. Special wage payments,
continues to work while receiving social security benefits                        which are for services performed in a prior year, will in-
may reduce the benefits the individual receives if not re-                        crease the current year earnings on Form W-2, which also
ported to the SSA. Special wage payments may include                              may result in a reduction in the beneficiary's benefits. If a
(but are not limited to):                                                         benefit is reduced because of a special wage payment,
                                                                                  the beneficiary must get documentation from the employer
    • Accumulated sick and vacation pay,                                          before the SSA can restore the deducted portion. There-
    • Back pay,                                                                   fore, employer reports of special wage payments help pre-
    • Bonuses,                                                                    vent incorrect benefit reductions.

    • Deferred compensation,                                                      Reporting Special Wage Payments
    • Payments because of retirement,
                                                                                  Employers must report special wage payments for income
    • Sales commissions,                                                          tax purposes and social security and Medicare taxes in
    • Severance pay, and

4                                                                                                                Publication 957 (January 2024)
the year received. Report income, social security, and/or         Paper listing. A paper listing can be used to report spe-
Medicare taxes for special wage payments on Form W-2.             cial wage payments to several employees. Use the format
                                                                  shown in Table 3, later. Submit paper listings to the local
        See Nonqualified Deferred Compensation and
                                                                  SSA office nearest your place of business. Go to
  !     Section 457 Plans, later, for reporting nonqualified
CAUTION deferred compensation (NQDC) plan deferrals
                                                                  SSA.gov/locator to find a Social Security Administration
                                                                  office near you.
and payments on Form W-2.
   In addition, report to the SSA special wage payments           Form SSA-131. Use Form SSA-131 to report special
made during the reporting year to retired employees and           wage payments made to an employee. Also use this form
employees who continue to work while receiving social se-         to report nonqualified deferred compensation and section
curity benefits. Submit reports after the close of the tax        457 plan deferrals and payments that could not be repor-
year. To avoid delays in processing, submit reports in time       ted in box 11 of Form W-2.
to reach the SSA by April 1. Use one of the following re-
                                                                      Note. Submit Form SSA-131 to the SSA office nearest
porting methods.
                                                                  your place of business. Or, the employee can submit it to
Electronic reporting. Special wage payment files can              the SSA office handling the claim. You or the employee
be sent electronically by logging onto Business Services          must submit this form before the SSA can exclude the
Online (BSO) via the SSA’s website. BSO enables organi-           special wage payments for purposes of the earnings test.
zations and authorized individuals to conduct business            If reporting on more than one employee, complete a sepa-
with and submit confidential information to the Social Se-        rate Form SSA-131 for each employee or use the paper
curity Administration. You must register to use this web-         listing format (except for reporting nonqualified and sec-
site. The web address is SSA.gov/bso/bsowelcome.htm.              tion 457 plan deferrals and payments) in Table 3.
   Use the specifications and record layout shown in                      Do not report payments from nonqualified defer-
Table 2, later. Only one file at a time may be submitted. If        !     red compensation or section 457 plans that were
your file is large (>10MB), or you have a slow internet con-      CAUTION reported in box 11 of Form W-2. Use Form

nection, the transmission will be faster if the file is zipped.   SSA-131 if deferrals to and payments from nonqualified or
A zipped file contains a file that has been compressed to         section 457 plans occurred during the tax year.
reduce its file size. WinZip and PKZIP are examples of ac-
ceptable compression packages.
   Electronic submissions not meeting the specifications
in Table 2 will be rejected.




Publication 957 (January 2024)                                                                                             5
Form SSA-131 (05-2023) UF
Discontinue Prior Editions                                                                                               Page 1 of 2
Social Security Administration                                                                                    OMB No. 0960-0565

                                 EMPLOYER REPORT OF SPECIAL WAGE PAYMENTS

                                  PART I - TO BE COMPLETED BY SSA/EMPLOYER:
Tax Year Employee Name                                            Employee's SSN                       SSA Claim Number
                                                                                                       (To be completed by SSA)


Employer                                                  Address



                                    PART 2 - TO BE COMPLETED BY EMPLOYER:

Employees are sometime paid wages in a year subsequent to the year that the wages were earned. The most common types of
payments are accumulated (for prior years) vacation pay or sick pay paid after retirement; deferred compensation; severance pay
(when paid on account of retirement) and bonuses--paid pursuant to a prior agreement or contract.

Wages which are earned in a year prior to the year they are paid usually do not affect benefits payable under the Social Security
annual earnings test. However, for the Social Security Administration to pay benefits accurately, these prior year amounts must
be reported to us. The above named individual has filed for Social Security benefits. To ensure that correct Social Security
benefits are paid, please complete the information below and return this form to the Social Security Administration. (Please see
reverse side for instructions for the completion of this form.)
1. Employer Identification Number    2. Retirement date                     3. Date employee last performed services
   (EIN)                                (MM/DD/YYYY)                           (MM/DD/YYYY)


If the dates in items 2 and 3 are not the same, please explain the difference.



4. For wages paid to the employee in the "tax year" (see Part I above), enter the amount that was
   for services performed prior to the tax year; or was not attributable to services rendered during       $
   the tax year; or was paid on account of retirement:
Check the type(s) of wages paid in the tax year but for services performed in a prior year or were paid on account of retirement.


        Vacation Pay                               Sick Pay                                    Severance Pay

        Bonus                                      Deferred Compensation

        Other (Explain)

5. Will payments listed in item "4" be made for years after the tax year?                                   Yes             No
If answered Yes, please show the amounts and years in which these amounts will be paid, if known.
            Amount                         Year                         Amount                                      Year




6. Nonqualified deferred compensation and section 457 plans only. If payments and deferrals
   occurred during the tax year, enter the amount of wages earned by the employee during                   $
   the tax year.

Signature

Title                                                 Date                           Phone Number


                                                              (Over)


6                                                                                                Publication 957 (January 2024)
 Form SSA-131 (05-2023) UF                                                                                                  Page 2 of 2
 EMPLOYER INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING SPECIAL WAGE PAYMENT FORM
 1. Provide the EIN that was used or will be used to report the employee's wages on the Form W-2.
 2. Enter the date the employee retired. Enter "Not Retired" if the employee has not retired.
 3. Enter the date that the employee last performed services; was not expected to return to work; and was not subject to recall to
    render additional services. This date should be the same as or earlier than the date in item "2." Enter "Not Retired" if the
    employee has not retired.
 4. Enter the wages that were paid to the employee in the tax year that were for services that were performed in years prior to the
    tax year or that were paid on account of retirement.
 Examples (not all inclusive) of payments to be included:
   • Payments in lieu of vacation that were earned in a year prior to the tax year.
   • Accumulated sick payments which were paid in a lump sum based on "retirement" as the sole condition of payment.
   • Accumulated sick payments paid at or after the date in item 3, which were earned in a year prior to the tax year.
   • Payments "on account of retirement"--dismissal, severance or termination pay paid because of retirement.
   • Bonuses which are paid pursuant to a prior contract, agreement or promise causing the employee to expect such payments
     regularly; or announced to induce the employee to work more steadily, rapidly or efficiently or to remain with the employer.
   • Stock Options.
 Do not include in item "4" payments:
   • For annual, sick, holiday or vacation pay if used (absence from work) prior to the date of retirement (earlier of items "2" or"3").
   • That were reported or will be reported under "Nonqualified Plans" on the Form W-2.
   • That were deducted from the employee's wages and paid to a deferred compensation plan (e.g., 401k).
   • Employees health and dental plan benefits (non-covered/non-taxable for Social Security Wages).
   • Bonuses earned and paid in the tax year.

 5. Check whether payments listed in item 4 will be made for years after the tax year. If yes, please show the amounts and years
    in which these will be paid, if known.

 6. Nonqualified deferred compensation and section 457 plans only. If you were unable to report nonqualified deferred
    compensation or section 457 plan payments and deferrals (contributions) on Form W-2 because both payments and deferrals
    occurred during the year, show the amount of wages earned by the employee during the tax year. Generally, the wages
    earned will be the compensation reported in block 1 of Form W-2 less payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation
    (or 457) plan, but including any amounts deferred under the plan during the tax year (See IRS Publication 957).


                                                    PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
                                            Collection and Use of Personal Information

 Sections 203(f), 205(c) and 233 of the Social Security Act, as amended, allow us to collect this information. Furnishing us this
 information is voluntary. However, failing to provide all or part of the information may prevent us from making an accurate
 determination regarding the amount of Social Security benefits payable to the individual for the year in question.

 We will use the information you provide to make a determination concerning the amount of Social Security benefits payable to the
 individual. We may also share this information for the following purposes, called routine uses:

 • To any source that has, or is expected to have, information that the Social Security Administration (SSA) needs in order to
   establish or verify a person’s eligibility for a certificate of coverage under a Social Security agreement authorized by section 233
   of the Social Act; and

 • To contractors and other Federal agencies, as necessary, for the purpose of assisting the SSA in the efficient administration of
   our programs.

 In addition, we may share this information in accordance with the Privacy Act and other Federal laws. For example, where
 authorized, we may use and disclose this information in computer matching programs, in which our records are compared with
 other records to establish or verify a person’s eligibility for Federal benefit programs and for repayment of incorrect or delinquent
 debts under these programs.

 A list of additional routine uses is available in our Privacy Act System of Records Notice (SORN) 60-0059, entitled Earnings
 Recordings and Self-Employment Income System, as published in the Federal Register (FR) on January 11, 2006, at 71 FR
 1819. Additional information, and a full listing of all of our SORNs, is available on our website at www.ssa.gov/privacy.

 Paperwork Reduction Act Statement - This information collection meets the requirements of 44 U.S.C. § 3507, as amended by
 section 2 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. You do not need to answer these questions unless we display a valid Office
 of Management and Budget (OMB) control number. We estimate that it will take about 20 minutes to read the instructions, gather
 the facts, and answer the questions. Send only comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this
 collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden to: SSA, 6401 Security Blvd, Baltimore, MD 21235-6401.




Publication 957 (January 2024)                                                                                                             7
Reporting Nonstatutory                                                           of the plan), including accumulated earned interest, in
                                                                                 box 3 (up to the wage base maximum) and/or box 5 of
(Nonqualified) Stock Options as                                                  Form W-2. The accumulated deferrals are reported along
Special Wage Payments                                                            with any other social security and Medicare wages earned
                                                                                 during the year.
A nonstatutory (nonqualified) option to purchase stock                               Report in box 11 of Form W-2 the amount of deferrals,
which is exercised in a year after the year in which the op-                     including any accumulated interest, that became taxable
tion was earned is a special wage payment. It should not                         for social security and Medicare taxes during the year (but
count for the social security earnings test. Nonstatutory                        were for prior year services) because the deferred
(nonqualified) options exercised as special wage pay-                            amounts were no longer subject to a substantial risk of for-
ments by retired employees or employees who continue to                          feiture. If the employee continues working, future deferrals
work while receiving social security benefits should be re-                      are social security and Medicare wages when they are
ported by employers using the above reporting methods.                           earned.
                                                                                         Do not include in box 11 deferrals that are inclu-
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation                                                       ded in boxes 3 and/or 5 and that are for current
and Section 457 Plans                                                              !
                                                                                 CAUTION year services.


An NQDC plan is a plan or arrangement established and
                                                                                 Risk of forfeiture lapses at retirement. When an em-
maintained by an employer for one or more of its employ-
                                                                                 ployee's right to a payment is contingent upon working un-
ees that provides for the deferral of compensation, but
                                                                                 til retirement, report all past contributions to the plan (or
does not meet the requirements for a tax-qualified defer-
                                                                                 the value of the plan), including accumulated earned inter-
red compensation plan. For social security and Medicare
                                                                                 est, as social security and/or Medicare wages in the year
purposes, deferred compensation plans for employees of
                                                                                 of retirement. Add the amount to other wages paid in that
state and local governments (section 457 plans) are trea-
                                                                                 year, and enter in box 3 (up to the wage base maximum)
ted the same as nonqualified plans. Nonqualified and sec-
                                                                                 and/or box 5 of Form W-2.
tion 457 plans are reported differently than other special
                                                                                     Report in box 11 of Form W-2 the amount of deferrals,
wage payments. See Reporting Amounts Deferred to
                                                                                 including any accumulated interest, that became taxable
Nonqualified and Section 457 Plans below for specific in-
                                                                                 for social security and Medicare taxes during the year (but
structions.
                                                                                 were for prior year services) because the deferred
                                                                                 amounts were no longer subject to a substantial risk of for-
Reporting Amounts Deferred to                                                    feiture.
Nonqualified and Section 457 Plans
                                                                                         Do not include in box 11 deferrals that are inclu-
Generally, when the related services are performed, non-                           !     ded in boxes 3 and/or 5 and that are for current
                                                                                 CAUTION year services.
qualified deferred compensation is subject to social secur-
ity and Medicare tax when deferred. However, if nonquali-
fied and section 457 plans contain provisions that delay                            Example—risk of forfeiture. At the end of the
the employee's right to receive payments from the plan, a                        risk-of-forfeiture period for Company Y's NQDC plan, Em-
period of substantial risk of forfeiture exists. The plans' de-                  ployee B's accumulated deferrals, plus interest earned by
ferrals, or contributions, are not subject to social security                    the plan, are $180,000, not including B's $20,000 deferral
and Medicare taxes until the period of substantial risk of                       for this year. B's wages, including this year's deferred
forfeiture ends.                                                                 amount, are $100,000.

No risk of forfeiture. If there is no risk of forfeiture, re-                    Form W-2 Completion                                                        Amount
port wage amounts deferred to a nonqualified deferred                            Box 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $80,000
compensation or section 457 plan in box 3 (up to the wage                        Box 3* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   160,200
base maximum) and/or box 5 of Form W-2.                                          Box 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    280,000
                                                                                 Box 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   180,000
   Example. Company X's NQDC plan allows the deferral                            *Wage base maximum for tax year 2023
of up to $20,000 of employee salaries each year. The plan
has no risk of forfeiture. In 2023, Employee A defers
$20,000 to the plan from a total salary of $200,000.
                                                                                 Reporting Payments From Nonqualified and
                                                                                 Nongovernmental Section 457 Plans
Form W-2 Completion                                                    Amount
Box 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $200,000   When an employee or former employee retires and begins
Box 3* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     160,200   receiving payments (distributions) from a nonqualified or
Box 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    200,000   nongovernmental section 457 plan, report the payments in
*Wage base maximum for tax year 2023                                             boxes 1 and 11 of Form W-2. Report payments (distribu-
                                                                                 tions) from a governmental section 457 plan on Form
Risk of forfeiture lapses before retirement. If the sub-                         1099-R, Distributions from Pensions, Annuities, Retire-
stantial risk of forfeiture lapses before the employee re-                       ment or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts,
tires, report all past contributions to the plan (or the value                   etc.

8                                                                                                                   Publication 957 (January 2024)
   Example. Employee D retired from the XYZ company
and began receiving social security benefits. XYZ paid D a
$12,000 bonus upon retirement for sales made in a prior
                                                                                       Additional Reporting Examples
year, and D received $25,000 in payments from XYZ's
NQDC plan. In addition, D agreed to continue performing
                                                                                       for Nonqualified Deferred
services for XYZ, but on a part-time basis for wages of                                Compensation (NQDC) Plans
$15,000 per year. D made no deferrals to the nonqualified
plan this year.                                                                        It is not necessary to show amounts deferred during the
                                                                                       year under an NQDC plan subject to section 409A. If you
Form W-2 Completion                                                      Amount        report section 409A deferrals, show the amount in box 12
Box 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $52,000       of Form W-2 using code Y. For more information, see No-
Box 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27,000       tice 2008-115, 2008-52 I.R.B. 1367, available at
Box 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27,000       IRS.gov/irb/2008-52_IRB#NOT-2008-115.
Box 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25,000
Report the $12,000 bonus to the SSA using electronic reporting, a                         Special reporting rules apply when an NQDC plan is
paper listing, or Form SSA-131. For more information, see Reporting                    not compliant with section 409A (when there has been a
Special Wage Payments, earlier.                                                        “plan failure”). Income included under section 409A from
                                                                                       an NQDC plan is reported in box 1 and box 12 of Form
Reporting Payments and Deferrals in the                                                W-2 using code Z. See Notice 2008-115.
Same Year                                                                                  The following examples use small dollar amounts for il-
                                                                                       lustrative purposes. However, the amount reported in
Do not complete box 11 when payments (distributions) are                               box 3 of Form W-2 is always limited by the social security
made from a nonqualified plan and deferrals are reported                               earnings wage base (for example, $160,200 for 2023).
in boxes 3 and/or 5 of Form W-2 (including current year                                The term “vested” in the following examples means that
deferrals). Report to the SSA on Form SSA-131 the total                                the amount deferred is not subject to a substantial risk of
amount the employee earned during the tax year. Nor-                                   forfeiture. Conversely, the term “not vested” means that
mally, the amount earned is the amount reported in box 1                               the amount deferred is subject to a substantial risk of for-
of Form W-2 less payments from a nonqualified or section                               feiture. The examples assume that the NQDC plan is in
457 plan, but including any amounts deferred under the                                 compliance with section 409A, and that amounts deferred
plan during the tax year. See Form SSA-131 and its in-                                 under the plan are not includible in gross income as they
structions, earlier.                                                                   are deferred. For purposes of the examples, it is assumed
                                                                                       that the regular pay of the employee is remuneration for
   Example. Employee K retired this year from Company                                  employment and wages for employment tax purposes ex-
XYZ and began receiving social security benefits. During                               cept to the extent the deferral of a portion of the regular
the year he earned wages of $50,000 and deferred                                       pay results in a reduction in wages.
$35,000 of the wages into the company's NQDC plan. K
also received $75,000 in payments from the company's                                      Example 1: Deferral that is immediately vested (no
nonqualified plan.                                                                     substantial risk of forfeiture) with no distributions
                                                                                       and no vesting of prior-year deferrals. For the year,
Form W-2 Completion                                                          Amount
                                                                                       the employee’s regular pay was $200, and the employee
Special Wage Payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             $75,000
Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       50,000
                                                                                       deferred $20 of the pay into the employer’s NQDC plan.
Minus: deferral . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         35,000
                                                                                       The deferral of $20 was vested upon deferral and there
                                                                                       was an employer match of $10 under the plan, which was
Total reported in Box 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          $90,000
                                                                                       also vested.
                                                                                          Regular pay = $200; Deferral, vested = $20; Employer
Wages including deferral reported in                                                   match, vested = $10.
Boxes 3 and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          $50,000

                                                                                       Form W-2 Completion                                                        Amount
Leave Box 11 blank. File Form SSA-131 . . . . . . . . . . .                      -0-
                                                                                       Box 1 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 vested deferral) . . . .                   $180
                                                                                       Box 3 ($200 Regular pay plus $10 Employer match,
                     Form SSA-131 Completion
                                                                                       vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       210
Amount from Box 1 of Form W-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                $90,000
                                                                                       Box 5 ($200 Regular pay plus $10 Employer match,
Minus: payments from a nonqualified plan . . . . . . . . . .                  75,000   vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       210
Plus: amounts deferred into the plan during the year . . . .                  35,000   Box 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -0-
Total wages earned for purposes of Form SSA-131 (item
6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $50,000
                                                                                          Example 2: Deferral with delayed vesting (substan-
                                                                                       tial risk of forfeiture) of employee and employer por-
                                                                                       tions (no distributions and no vesting of prior-year
                                                                                       deferrals). For the year, the employee’s regular pay was
                                                                                       $200, and the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the



Publication 957 (January 2024)                                                                                                                                          9
employer’s NQDC plan. The deferral of $20 was not ves-                                    *Generally, the amount earned by the employee during
ted upon deferral, and there was an employer match of                                 the tax year for purposes of item 6 of Form SSA-131 is the
$10 under the plan, which was also not vested.                                        amount reported in box 1 of Form W-2 plus current-year
   Regular pay = $200; Deferral, not vested = $20; Em-                                deferrals that are vested (employee and employer por-
ployer match, not vested = $10.                                                       tions) less distributions. Do not consider prior-year defer-
                                                                                      rals that are vesting in the current year. If there was a plan
Form W-2 Completion                                                         Amount    failure, the box 1 amount in this calculation should be as if
Box 1 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, not                                       there were no plan failure.
vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     $180
Box 3 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, not                                          Example 5: Deferral that is immediately vested and
vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      180    there are distributions (no vesting of prior-year de-
Box 5 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, not                                       ferrals). For the year, the employee’s regular pay was
vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      180    $200, and the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the
Box 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        -0-   employer’s NQDC plan. There was also an employer
                                                                                      match of $10. The deferral and employer match were ves-
   Example 3: Deferral that is immediately vested                                     ted upon deferral. There was no vesting of prior-year de-
with prior-year deferrals and investment earnings on                                  ferrals under the plan. During the year, there were total
the prior-year deferrals that are now vesting (no dis-                                distributions of $50 from the plan to the employee.
tributions). For the year, the employee’s regular pay was                                Regular pay = $200; Deferral, vested = $20; Employer
$200, and the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the                               match, vested = $10; Distribution = $50.
employer’s NQDC plan. The deferral of $20 was vested
upon deferral. During the year, $100 of prior-year deferrals                          Form W-2 Completion                                                      Amount
and $15 of investment earnings on the $100 of prior-year                              Box 1 ($50 Special Wage Payment (Distribution) plus $200
deferrals became vested.                                                              Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, vested) . . . . . . . . . . . .            $230
   Regular pay = $200; Deferral, vested = $20; Vesting of                             Boxes 3 and 5 ($200 Regular pay plus $10 vested
prior-year deferrals = $100; Vesting of investment earn-                              employer match) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         210
ings on $100 of prior-year deferral = $15.                                            Leave Box 11 blank. File Form SSA-131 . . . . . . . . . . . .                -0-


Form W-2 Completion                                                         Amount                           Form SSA-131 Completion
Box 1 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, vested) . . . .                   $180    Item 6 - amount of wages earned by the employee during
                                                                                      the tax year ($230 from Box 1 of Form W-2 minus $50
Box 3 ($200 Regular pay plus $100 vested prior-year
                                                                                      Distribution plus $30 vested current-year employee
deferral plus $15 earnings on deferral) . . . . . . . . . . . . .              315
                                                                                      deferral and employer match) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           $210
Box 5 ($200 Regular pay plus $100 vested prior-year
deferral plus $15 vested investment earnings on prior-year
deferral) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      315       Example 6: Deferral with delayed vesting and there
Box 11 ($100 vested prior-year deferral plus $15                                      are distributions (no vesting of prior-year deferrals).
earnings) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        115    For the year, the employee’s regular pay was $200, and
                                                                                      the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the employer’s
   Example 4: No deferrals but there are distributions                                NQDC plan. The deferral was not vested upon deferral.
(no vesting of prior-year deferrals). For the year, the                               There was no vesting of prior-year deferrals under the
employee’s regular pay was $100, and the employee de-                                 plan. During the year, there were total distributions of $50
ferred no pay into the employer’s NQDC plan. There was                                from the plan to the employee.
no vesting of prior-year deferrals under the plan. During                                Regular pay = $200; Deferral, not vested = $20; Distri-
the year, there were total distributions of $50 from the plan                         bution = $50.
to the employee.
   Regular pay = $100; Distribution = $50.                                            Form W-2 Completion                                                      Amount
                                                                                      Box 1 ($50 Special Wage Payment (Distribution) plus $200
Form W-2 Completion                                                         Amount    Regular pay minus $20 Deferral, not vested) . . . . . . . . .              $230
Box 1 ($100 Regular pay plus $50 Distribution) . . . . . . . .                $150    Boxes 3 and 5 ($200 Regular pay minus $20 deferral that
                                                                                      is not vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      180
Box 3 ($100 Regular pay) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             100
                                                                                      Box 11 ($50 Distribution). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         50
Box 5 ($100 Regular pay) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             100
Box 11 ($50 Distribution) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             50
                                                                                         Example 7: Deferral that is immediately vested and
   Special rule for box 11 of Form W-2 (distributions                                 there are distributions (also vesting of prior-year de-
and deferral in the same year). If, in the same year,                                 ferrals and earnings on those prior-year deferrals).
there are nonqualified deferred compensation distribu-                                For the year, the employee’s regular pay was $200, and
tions and there are deferrals that are reportable in boxes 3                          the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the employer’s
and/or 5 (current or prior-year deferrals) of Form W-2, do                            NQDC plan. The deferral was vested upon deferral. There
not complete box 11. Instead, report on Form SSA-131                                  was vesting of $100 of prior-year deferrals and $15 of
the total amount the employee earned during the year.*                                earnings on the $100 prior-year deferral under the plan.
Submit the SSA-131 to the nearest SSA office or give it to                            During the year, there were total distributions of $50 from
the employee.                                                                         the plan to the employee.

10                                                                                                                      Publication 957 (January 2024)
   Regular pay = $200; Deferral, vested = $20; Distribution                      deferral. There was also vesting of prior-year deferrals and
= $50; Vesting of prior-year deferrals ($100) and earnings                       employer matches and earnings on these amounts under
on those prior-year deferrals ($15) = $115.                                      the plan ($115). During the year, there were total distribu-
                                                                                 tions of $50 from the plan to the employee.
Form W-2 Completion                                                Amount           Regular pay = $200; Deferral, not vested = $20; Distri-
Box 1 ($50 Special Wage Payment (Distribution) plus $200                         bution = $50; Vesting of prior-year deferrals and employer
Regular pay minus $20 vested deferral . . . . . . . . . . . . .      $230        match = $100 plus earnings on that $100 of $15.
Boxes 3 and 5 ($200 Regular pay Plus $115 vested prior
deferral (with vested earnings on the deferral)) . . . . . . . .       315         Form W-2 Completion                                                         Amount
Leave Box 11 blank. File Form SSA-131 . . . . . . . . . . . .           -0-        Box 1 ($50 Special Wage Payment (Distribution) plus $200
                                                                                   regular pay minus $20 Deferral, not vested) . . . . . . . . . .               $230
                       Form SSA-131 Completion                                     Boxes 3 and 5 ($200 Regular pay plus $115 vested
Item 6, amount of wages earned by the employee during                              prior-year deferral and prior-year employer match and
the tax year ($230 from Box 1 of Form W-2 minus $50                                earning on the prior-year amounts minus $20 deferral that
Distribution plus $20 vested current-year deferral) . . . . .        $200          is not vested) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         295
                                                                                   Leave Box 11 blank. File Form SSA-131 . . . . . . . . . . . .                   -0-
   Example 8: Deferral with delayed vesting and there
are distributions (vesting of prior-year deferrals, in-                                                     Form SSA-131 Completion
cluding employer matches, and earnings on those                                    Item 6 ($230 Amount from Box 1 of Form W-2 minus $50
deferrals). For the year, the employee’s regular pay was                           Distribution) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     $180
$200, and the employee deferred $20 of the pay into the
employer’s NQDC plan. The deferral was not vested upon
Table 2. Specifications for Electronic Reporting of Special Wage Payments
    Record Position               Field
                                  Size      Description
   Start          End
      1             3              3        Record Type—must include only the capital letters “SWP”
      4            12              9        SSN—must be numeric and may not be all zeros
     13            27              15       Last Name—all capitals and no punctuation; may have blanks on right only
     28            38              11       First Name—all capitals and no punctuation; may have blanks on right only
     39            39              1        Middle Initial—must be either a capital letter or blank
     40            48              9        EIN—must be numeric and may not be all zeros
     49            59              11       Payment—must be numeric; may not be all zeros; last two digits on right are
                                            assumed to be cents; no period or dollar sign
     60            63              4        Payment Year—must be only a four-digit year
     64            66              3        SSA Office Code—must be numeric and may be all zeros
     67            67              1        Payment Type Code—must be the capital letter “T”
     68            117             50       Filler
The record format is a fixed length of 117.
The file format is ASCII.
Submit only one file at a time.




Publication 957 (January 2024)                                                                                                                                     11
Table 3. Sample—Paper Listing for Reporting Special Wage Payments to Several
Employees
                                                                                                     Report of Special Wage Payments                        Tax Year:          Page      of
     A. Employer Name:                                                                                       EIN:

          Address:                                                                                     Contact Name:

                                                                                                       Phone: (       )

          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     1)     B. Employee Name: (Last)                                                                      (First)                               (MI)

           C. SSN:                                                         D. SWP:$                       E. Type:              Other:

     2)     B. Employee Name: (Last)                                                                      (First)                               (MI)

           C. SSN:                                                         D. SWP:$                       E. Type:              Other:

     3)     B. Employee Name: (Last)                                                                      (First)                               (MI)

           C. SSN:                                                         D. SWP:$                       E. Type:              Other:

     4)     B. Employee Name: (Last)                                                                      (First)                               (MI)

           C. SSN:                                                         D. SWP:$                       E. Type:              Other:

     5)     B. Employee Name: (Last)                                                                      (First)                               (MI)

           C. SSN:                                                         D. SWP:$                       E. Type:              Other:




          INSTRUCTIONS:

          Enter tax year and page number.

          A. Employer name, employer identification number (EIN), address, the name of a contact person, and a phone number where the contact
          person can be reached during normal business hours.

          B. Employee's name.

          C. Employee's social security number (SSN).

          D. Total amount of special wage payments made to the employee.

          E. Type of special wage payment from the following list: (1) Vacation Pay, (2) Sick Pay, (3) Severance Pay,
          (4) Bonus, (5) Deferred Compensation, (6) Stock Options, and (7) Other—Please explain.

          Do not use a paper listing for nonqualified deferred compensation and section 457 plan deferrals and payments that could not be
          reported in block 11 of Form W-2. (Get Form SSA-131.)




12                                                                                                                                         Publication 957 (January 2024)

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
