# ug15

**Source Type:** PDF Document (PDFs)  
**Category:** customer-service  
**Generated:** 2025-06-26 03:08:31  
**Original File:** ug15.pdf

---

## Content

CRL ONLINE CATALOG                                              Over 60,000 Quality Products
                                                                and Helpful Information are           CAT. NO.

USER'S GUIDE                                                    Just Clicks Away, Anytime,
                                                                and at Your Fingertips!
                                                                                                       UG15

                                                                   Learn About These Helpful
                                                                   Features of crlaurence.com
                                                                   How to Create a User name and Password
                                                                   How to Sign On
                                                                   How to Recover Your Sign On Information
                                                                   How to Search for Products
                                                                   How to View/Print Product Information
                                                                   How to Get Prices and Check Stock Availability
                                                                   How to Place Orders and Track Your Shipments
                                                                   How to Make Changes to an Open Order
                                                                   How to Request, Process or Change a Quote
                                                                   How to Manage Your Account Online
                                                                   How to Pay Your Statement
                                                                   How to View/Print/Email Invoices
                                                                   How to Contact CRL
                                                                   How to View and Download Catalogs
                                                                   How to Build Your Personal Catalog
                                                                   How to Request a Credit/Trade Reference
                                                                   How to Get Web Site Help
                                                                   How to Find Our Business Policies
                                                                   How to Use the CRL Mobile Web Site
                                                                                   w!




                                                                                                      Our Mobile App
                                                                                 Ne




                                                                                                      for Your Tablet
Online is the Easiest Way to Shop at CRL!                                                             or Smartphone!



                 C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
                 Wo r l d w i d e M a n u fa c t u r e r a n d S u p p l i e r
                  Glazing, Architectural, Railing, Screen, Construction,
                           Industrial, and Automotive Supplies

crlaurence.com          usalum.com                    crl-arch.com
                         CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Introduction
   Of all the products we bring you, our Online Catalog may be      What you will find at crlaurence.com is a link to who we are,
the most important. We know that the most efficient way for       what we do, and what we have to offer our customers. The CRL
our customers to shop at CRL is by using this carefully planned   self-service web site allows us to use the powers of Electronic
and thoroughly prepared Online Catalog to make it easy for        Commerce to bring you closer to all of the products and services
them to find exactly what they need. C.R. Laurence Company        that we offer.
is committed to making our Online Catalog your best source for
information and technical support.




   We take a Business-to-Business approach of conducting          your convenience. You can review our tens of thousands of
business over the Internet because it gives us so many ways to    products we make available, including pricing and current stock
connect to you. Methods of searching and ordering products that   availability.
just a few years ago would have been impossible were it not for      All of this and more is available to CRL customers who sign in
the versatility of this powerful tool.                            to our web site and become part of the world of crlaurence.com.
   Empowerment is what a good web site is all about. We let you   The next few pages will provide the 'How To' answers to the
make the decisions that will best serve you. You can build your   features you can access, making it more convenient to shop by
orders and submit them 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at      using the CRL Online Catalog.



User's Guide Menu to CRL Online
• How to Create a User Name and Password                                • How to Request, Process or Change a Quote
• How to Sign On and Recover Your Log In Information                    • How to Request Product Data Sheets
• How to Search for Products                                            • How to Pay Your Statement
• How to Check Prices                                                   • How to Contact Us
• How to Check Stock                                                    • How to View the Online Catalog Library
• How to View/Print Invoices                                            • How to Build Your Personal Catalog
• How to Place or Change Orders                                         • NEW MOBILE SITE! See Pages UG27 to UG35

               C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                    crlaurence.com
                   crl-arch.com        crlaurence.ca         crlaurence.com.au       crlaurence.co.uk         crlaurence.de
                             CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Navigation Menu



   The Home Page is topped by a Navigation Menu that has                         The Navigation Menu is also where you'll find our all-important
buttons you can click on to link directly to the most popular areas           'Enter Your Search Word(s) Here' box. This powerful tool lets you
of crlaurence.com. You can easily get to our Global Directory and             locate CRL Products by entering their Catalog Number, or just a
choose the appropriate web site; Eight popular Product Groups;                portion of the number. You can also use it to find products by entering
Phone and fax numbers for CRL Departments; Directions to all                  key words or the names of products.
CRL Service Centers; Access to our Customer Support Center;                      Navigating a web site with so many products doesn't need to be
Product Quotes in a timely fashion. All of this is just a click away.         difficult. The 'Enter Your Search Word(s) Here' box is the surest way
                                                                              to find exactly what you are looking for.



Customer Menu Bar
    The Customer Menu Bar is a good starting point for navigating around crlaurence.com.
It provides a direct link to virtually all areas that can be accessed after you sign on, or after
you have reviewed and selected products and now wish to order them.
    Near the top our Customer Menu is your link to Express Ordering, an easy to learn
and quick to complete method of placing orders online whenever it's convenient for you.
You set the schedule and the pace because you are in control. You can also build your
Personal Catalog by matching your part numbers to our Catalog Numbers.


                               Next in the menu is Searching on
                            CRL. We've gone into a lot of detail on
                            this subject, and ask you to turn to page
                            UG04 to review the different search
                            methods we offer. There's also a link to
                            our Document Library of Comparison,
                            Cross-Reference, and Specification
                            Charts, Application Guides, New Product
                            Submittal Forms, and more by clicking
                            on CRL Total Search. Products and
                            Services has direct links to our
                            "Information Centers" for many of our
                            major product lines. They act like 'hubs'
                            where you can reference the various
                            categories of information pertaining to
                            these product lines, including Product
                            Offer Pages, Product Specs, Technical
                            Drawings, Measurement Templates, and
                            a variety of helpful information sources.
                                                                                 When you click into General Information you are presented
                                                                              with a selection that includes information about CRL's Business
                                                                              Policies, Videos, ways to contact us, our Service Center locations,
                                                                              and package tracking.
                                                                                 Online Applications Login allows customers who subscribe
                                                                              to any of CRL's Online Programs to login fast and easy.
                                                                                 News and Events lets you review CRL e-News, Press Releases,
                                                                              Technical Articles, upcoming Trade Show dates and locations, and
                                                                              useful Internet links. When you click on the link called "What's
                                                                              New" you'll see categories showing our recently added products.
                                                                                 As stated above, the "Customer Menu Bar" offers you so many
                                                                              directions you can use to navigate around crlaurence.com. Take
                                                                              some time to explore it all.



crlaurence.com                                                                                      C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com         crlaurence.ca         crlaurence.com.au            crlaurence.co.uk            crlaurence.de       | UG01
                 CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Create a User Name and Password                                         crlaurence.com/create

 1   Have Your CRL Customer Number Ready.




 2   Click Sign On.




 3   Click on Don't
     Have a User
     Name Yet? Create
     One Here.




 4   Fill out the page to
     create a user name
     and password, then
     click on Submit.

 5   Correct any errors if they
     appear after clicking
     Submit.

 6   Once the information is
     accepted, you will see
     this "Account Sign On
     Confirmation Page."

7    Click Home to begin using full web site services.

         C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                   crlaurence.com
         UG02 | crl-arch.com      crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Sign On                                                                   crlaurence.com/signon

 1    Click Sign On or enter "LOGIN" in the yellow search box.




 2    Enter your user
      name and password,
      Click Here to Sign On.




 3    To confirm your user name
      and password, or to check if
      you have one set up, click on
      Forgot Your User Name or
      Password? Recover It Here.




How to Recover Your Sign On Information                                         crlaurence.com/recover




 1    Click Sign On
      (see step 1 above).




 2    Click Forgot Your User             3     Enter your Email
      Name or Password?                        Address, then click
      Recover It Here                          Submit.
      (see step 3 above).

crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG03
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Best Ways to Search
Search methods to find products
in order of importance
 1    Search Box Search by
      Cat. No. and by Keyword(s).




 2    Sitemap Used to
      be the same or a
      little more descriptive
      than mall pages.


 3    Products By Industry
      Broader than mall
      pages, catering more
      to our core industries.                                       5    Catalog Page Search,
                                                                         will also search for
                                                                         product groups, then
      Mall Pages                                                         allow for page viewing.
 4
      Overview of product
      lines to start drilling                                       6    Online Catalogs
      down to products.                                                  to find products by
                                                                         industry. When using
                                                                         Online Catalogs, you
                                                                         switch between catalogs
Search methods to find                                                   while in individual
other information                                                        catalogs.

 7    Click on CRL Total Search.
      On this page you have a
      search box to locate
      products, the same as the
      yellow search box on the
      top right of every page.

 8    To find Technical Details, Drawings, MSDS, Spec Data, Instructions, User Guides, Catalog
      Pages, or anything else, you can click on one of the tabs located on this same page.

      Product specific information and details can also be found on each product's offer page.

          C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                 crlaurence.com
          UG04 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to View/Print Product Information
 1    Enter the CRL Catalog Number or Product Description in the Search Box, then click Search.




 2    Available link tabs will
      appear near the top of
      the product page.


 3    Click on the
      desired data link.



 4    You have the option to
      view links through
      HTML or PDF Format.



 5    If you only want to view
      this information, click on
      HTML Format.


 6    If you want to print this
      information, click on
      PDF Format.

crlaurence.com                                                      C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca     crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG05
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Check Prices
1   On the                • Enter a CRL Catalog Number in the        • If you are signed on, pricing will
    Product Page:           search box located at the top right        automatically appear on the right
                            of page, then click Search.                hand side.




2   On the Quick Pricing Page:                 • Enter the CRL Catalog Number then click Look Up.

    • Click on Quick Pricing under
      "Customer Menu Bar" located
      on the top left (see above image).




3   On the Shopping Cart Page:
    • Click on View Cart located at
      the top right of the page.
                                               • If you decide not to order this item, click Remove Item.




    • Enter the quantity and CRL Catalog
      Number then click Add to Cart.


        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                       crlaurence.com
        UG06 | crl-arch.com    crlaurence.ca     crlaurence.com.au     crlaurence.co.uk    crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Check Stock
      On the                   • Enter a CRL Catalog Number in the       • If you are signed on, the page
 1
      Product Page:              search box located at the top right       will show the quantity available
                                 of page, then click Search.               at your local CRL Service
                                                                           Center, other Service Centers
                                                                           in your region, and CRL's
                                                                           Corporate Headquarters.




 2    On the Quick Pricing Page
      • Click on Quick Pricing under            • Enter the CRL Catalog Number then click Look Up.
        "Customer Menu Bar" located
        on the top left (see image above).




 3    On the Shopping Cart Page:                • If you decide not to order this item, click Remove Item.
      • Enter the quantity and
        CRL Catalog Number,
        then click Add to Cart.
      • Click on the word Check next to the
        product description to see available
        stock at each CRL Service Center.
crlaurence.com                                                     C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca    crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG07
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Place an Order
1   Click on Express Ordering       2      Enter the quantity and              3     Continue adding items
    under "Customer Menu Bar".             CRL Catalog Number                        to the order or click
                                           then click Add to Cart.                   Secure Checkout.




                                               NOTE: To change a quantity, simply enter the new quantity next to
                                               the product you want to change and click Update All Quantities.

4   For Ship Via selection,
    click on the drop
    down arrow.




5   Enter special instructions about
    your order (if any), then click
    Continue to Checkout.




    Shipping to a different address?
6   If no, click Continue to Checkout.
    If yes, enter the drop ship address,
    then click Continue to Checkout
    or Make Additional Changes.



        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                          crlaurence.com
        UG08 | crl-arch.com    crlaurence.ca     crlaurence.com.au        crlaurence.co.uk      crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Place an Order (Continued)
 7    Enter PO Number
      or Name.



 8    For alternate payment method
      selection, click on the drop
      down arrow, then click Make
      Additional Changes or
      Continue to Checkout.




 9    Review the order
      confirmation page,
      then click Make
      Additional Changes
      or Continue to Checkout.



10    If your order does not yet
      qualify to receive one of our
      Internet Bonuses, you can
      click Return to Shopping Cart
      to increase your order, or click
      Finalize Without Bonus.




11    If your order does qualify for an
      Internet Bonus, click on the
      bonus item of your choice or
      click Finalize Without Bonus.




12    Print the confirmation screen
      for your records or click
      Place Another Order.


crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG09
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Make Changes or Check Status on an Open Order
1
    Click on Your Account, then Click on View My Unshipped Orders.




2   Click on the Sales
    Order Number you
    want to change or
    inquire on.


        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
        UG10 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                    CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Make Changes to an Open Order (Continued)
 3    Click on Change or Inquire
      on This Order or Return to
      Unshipped Orders.



 4    Enter the name and email
      address of person making
      the change or inquiry.


 5    Select the type of
      change and enter
      comments regarding
      the change.


 6    Click on Submit.
      NOTE: If you are changing
      or adding to your order,
      continue with steps 7
      through 9.



 7    Make the changes to
      your order, then click
      on Secure Checkout.



 8    Click Continue to
      Checkout on each page
      after confirming the
      Ship Via, PO#, and
      Payment Terms.


 9    If your order qualifies to receive
      an Internet Bonus Item, select
      the one of your choice or click
      Finalize Without Bonus.


crlaurence.com                                                       C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca      crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG11
                 CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Request a Quote
1   Click on Quote Request.




2   Select one of the
    categories for a summary
    of the product line then click
    Continue to Request Quote.

3   Enter the quantity, CRL
    Catalog Number, Color or
    Size (if applicable) and detailed
    Description, then click
    Add To My Quote.

4   Continue to add or click on
    Continue to Process Quote.


5   Review the information
    entered, add a project
    name and any instructions,
    then click Submit.

6   You will receive a quote number
    for your reference and an email
    response within one business day.

         C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                 crlaurence.com
        UG12 | crl-arch.com     crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                    CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Change, Process or Cancel Quotes
 1    Click on Your Quotes under “Customer Menu Bar".




 2    Select the quote you want to
      change, process, or cancel.

 3    When the quote appears on your
      screen, click on Process This Quote
      Into an Order, Make Changes to
      This Quote, or Cancel This Quote.

 4    If processing into an order, review
      quote details, enter PO#, select Ship
      Via, Payment Terms, add any comments
      regarding the order, then click Submit.
      NOTE: If you are changing a quote, continue
      with steps 5 through 8.


 5    Make the necessary changes to your quote,
      then click Continue to Process Quote.

 6    Review changed quote.


 7    Enter instructions (if any) for the
      revised quote, then click Submit.


 8    You will receive a copy of your revised
      quote within one business day.

crlaurence.com                                                     C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca    crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG13
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Pay Your Statement
1   Click on Your Account.



2   Click on View and Pay My Invoices.




        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
        UG14 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Pay Your Statement (Continued)

 3    Click on the box next to each Invoice
      you want to pay, then click
      Pay with Check or
      Pay with Credit Card.




 4    Enter comments
      about your payment
      (if any) then click
      Process Online.




 5    You will be given a
      Confirmation Number
      for your payment.



crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG15
                 CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to View/Print/Email Invoices
1   Click on Your Account.




2   Click on View
    and Pay My
    Invoices.




    To Email one or more
3
    Invoices click on the
    box in front of each
    Invoice you would like
    to receive and then
    click on Send Email
    Invoice Copies.


4   To view or print
    Invoices click on the
    Invoice Number.



5   Click on Print
    This Invoice.




         C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
         UG16 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Track Your UPS Packages
 1    Click on Your Account.




 2    Click on View
      My History of
      Shipped Orders.




 3    Click on the
      Reference
      Number or
      Order Number
      for the order you
      want to track.




 4    You can either click
      on the Tracking
      Number(s) shown
      under “Shipping
      Information" or on
      the Track Your
      Packages button.
      You will be linked
      to the UPS Package
      Tracking site.




crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG17
                     CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Contact CRL                                                      crlaurence.com/locations

 1   Click on
     Contact
     Us/CRL
     Locations.


 2   Click on the
     department
     you want to
     contact via
     email or fax.




How to Find Addresses for CRL Service Centers
 1   Click on Contact
     Us/CRL Locations
     (see above image).




 2   Click on the
     CRL Service
     Center
     nearest you.


 3   View and/or print
     map directions.



          C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                               crlaurence.com
         UG18 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to View, Download or Request a Catalog                                         crlaurence.com/library




 1    On the left side of our
      Home Page click on
      Catalog Library.




 2    Click on
      See All Catalogs.




 3    Click the image for the
      catalog you want to view,
      then select View/Download
      Online, or Request a
      Printed Copy.



crlaurence.com                                                     C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca    crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG19
                     CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Build Your Personal Catalog
 1   Click on Personal Catalog under "Customer Menu Bar".




 2   You can choose to
     automatically build
     your Personal Catalog
     by selecting the
     Quantity and then
     click on Auto Populate.
     This option uses the
     most commonly
     ordered items you
     previously purchased
     from CRL. Or you can
     type your Catalog
     Number or Description,
     the CRL Catalog Number,
     and then click Add to
     My Personal Catalog.
     NOTE: Your Catalog
     Number must consist
     of digits and/or letters.
     No punctuation can be
     included.



     NOTE: You can edit
     catalog numbers by
     clicking on the green
     pencil icon.

     Simply change the
     catalog number,
     then click Update.


           C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
           UG20 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                      CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Build Your Personal Catalog (Continued)
NOTE: Your Personal Catalog is most commonly used to place orders for products you regularly order.
      (See instructions below on How to Order through your Personal Catalog.)


 3      Type in the
        quantity for each item
        you want to place in
        your shopping cart
        and click Add to Cart.




 4      Once all items
        have been added
        to your shopping
        cart you can
        proceed with
        Secure Checkout.



        NOTE: If Express
        Checkout is enabled,
        the Express Checkout
        will allow you to place
        your order with "One
        Click". If you don't see
        it, you can enable this
        time saving feature by
        going to Your Account.


crlaurence.com                                                            C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca     crlaurence.com.au     crlaurence.co.uk    crlaurence.de      | UG21
                 CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Request a Credit/Trade Reference
 1   Click on Customers, then Request a Credit/Trade Reference.




 2   Are you a current
     CRL customer?
     Click on
     Yes or No.




          C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                               crlaurence.com
         UG22 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                           CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Request a Credit/Trade Reference (Continued)
 3    Enter all required fields,
      then click on Next.
      If Yes, enter 10 digit account number. After
      the 10th digit is entered, if a match is found,
      the left hand side of the form fills in the
      account information.

      If No match found, or if you said No, then fill
      out the left hand side of the form with your
      complete information.

      The right hand side, Reference Information,
      is the 10 digit phone number for the
      business you want to receive a Credit
      Reference on. Type in 10 digits (no spaces,
      dashes or other characters are allowed).
      If a match is found, the right hand side will
      self-populate.

      After both sides of the form are populated,
      press Next. If all fields are completed, the
      form will change, if not, a Red Warning
      explaining the additional information
      required will appear.




 4    Uncheck any fields for
      information you do not
      need, then click on
      Submit Request.




 5    Please read Terms of Use,
      then click on I Accept.




crlaurence.com                                                                 C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com       crlaurence.ca            crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG23
                            CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Some Other Features of crlaurence.com



CRL Express Checkout                                                               CRL Online Software
                                                                                                                   Subscribers to our
   If you want to be able to complete your                                                                      Showers Online,
online orders in one click, and if you use the                                                                  Storefronts Online, and
same billing and shipping methods on most                                                                       Hand Rails Online
orders, this is for you. To turn this valuable                                                                  Optimization Programs
time-saving feature on:                                                                                         access them by clicking
                                                       Express Checkout                                         on Online Programs.
                                                                                                                These web-based
   1      Click on Your Account.                                                                                programs save
                                                                                                                subscribers
                                                                                                                countless
   2      Click on CRL Express Checkout.                                                                        man-hours,
                                                                                                                helping reduce
                                                                                                                labor costs.
   3      Click on Turn Express Checkout On.


CRL e–News                                                                         CRL Webinars (Web Seminars)
                                                                                   crlaurence.com/webinars

   Subscribers to this free service get once a month
updates on new products, our monthly promotion,
industry events, technical bulletins, and more.

                       1 Sign up and
                             view past issues
                             by clicking on
                             News/Events,
                                                                                      Register to join us online by clicking on News/Events,
                             then on the                                           then clicking on Webinars for live training by industry
                             CRL e-Newsletter                                      professionals, or view previous Webinars. New topics
                             link.                                                 are added regularly, so check in frequently.




Connect With CRL While You Are Online                                              Shortcut URL's
  If you wish to contact or connect with CRL while you are online, you can reach
us on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIN, Behance, Google Plus, Flickr, and        Enter the word SHORTCUT into the Search Box and
you can even use Skype to call us for free from anywhere in the world.             you will be shown our list of shortcut URL's that speed
  Be the first to know about new content, videos, press releases, and more by      your access to many of our most popular product lines,
connecting with CRL from these pages.                                              catalogs, and other features of crlaurence.com.
  You can connect with CRL using any of these methods right from our
home page.




                 C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                           crlaurence.com
                 UG24 | crl-arch.com             crlaurence.ca       crlaurence.com.au          crlaurence.co.uk            crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Get Help
 1    Click on Help in the upper right hand corner on the Home Page.




 2    Click on the link under Pick a Topic for the type of
      assistance you require or to email a specific department.




crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG25
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Find Our Business Policies                                        crlaurence.com/policies

1   Click on General
    Information, then
    click on Business
    Policies.




2   Click on the
    topic you want
    to view under
    Information
    Center.




        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
        UG26 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                          CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Use CRL Mobile
With the New CRL Mobile Web Site One Can:
• Search CRL's Vast Database of Products and
  Services (More Being Continually Added)
• Retrieve CRL Service Center Addresses,
  Phone Numbers, as Well as Maps and
  Driving Directions to Each Location
                                                                                               This QR Code is readable by QR scanners and
Sign In and Also Have Access To:                                                               smartphones equipped with a QR Reader
                                                                                               Application. Free QR smartphone apps are
• Instant Stock Checks and Pricing                                                             available in all app stores/markets.

• Ordering While on the Job or on the Go
• Express Checkout




Whether You're on the Job or on the Go,
CRL's New Mobile Web Site is the Way to Go
   Smartphone and tablet devices will now be automatically redirected to our new mobile web site, however they will also have the option of
viewing the standard CRL web site as well. The new mobile web site is available for use by CRL customers worldwide, and can be accessed
by using a customer's current user name and password.
   “The upward trend in business-to-business smartphone and tablet use is significant, and more and more of our customers are using these
devices to view and order from crlaurence.com," says Lloyd Talbert, President of C.R. Laurence. “The convenience of being able to search
for products and order them while on the go is remarkable. As a company that leverages technology in providing excellent customer service,
we created this mobile web site to provide additional ordering convenience and flexibility so that our customers can operate their businesses
more efficiently."




crlaurence.com                                                                            C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com       crlaurence.ca        crlaurence.com.au          crlaurence.co.uk         crlaurence.de          | UG27
                          CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
On Your Mobile Device, Go to crlaurence.com
  1      Press Sign On.




  2      Type in your
         User Name.

         Type in your Password.


         Press Sign On.

NOTE: MAKE SURE TO TURN OFF TX9 SETTING



How to Search for Information



                                             1                                             2
                                           Press                                          Press in the
                                           Search.                                        blank box and
                                                                                          the keyboard
                                                                                          will appear.



                                                                                           3
                                                                                          Type in the CRL
                                                                                          Catalog Number
                                                                                          or search word(s)
                                                                                          and press Go.



               C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                     crlaurence.com
               UG28 | crl-arch.com        crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                         CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
How to Search for Information (Continued)
                                                             Product: The main page with a
                                                             picture, title, along with pricing
                                                             if you are Signed On, and an
                                                             order quantity box.




                                                                                                    The top row shows the
                                     Once the                                                       links to the product
                                     product you                                                    information available
                                     are trying to                                                  on each product page.
                                     locate is
                                     found,                                                         This area displays the
                                     press it.                                                      pricing for the product
                                                                                                    with quantity price
                                     If the part you
                                     are searching
                                                                                                    breaks plus an Add
                                     for is displayed,                                              to Cart box. Swipe
                                     press it, if not,
                                     scroll through
                                                                                                    the screen to view
                                     the results by                                                 additional information
                                     moving the
                                     screen up and
                                                                                                    further down the page.
                                     down by swiping
                                     the screen.




   Details: Additional            Colors: Will list any                Notes: Displays                  Related: Will list any
   product details with           other colors or finishes             product warnings or very         similar or related items
   descriptions of features       of this product that are             important information            used with this product.
   and functions.                 available.                           (if any).




crlaurence.com                                                                       C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com      crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au          crlaurence.co.uk           crlaurence.de    | UG29
               CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Ordering



                                                                                            After pressing Add To
                                                                                            Cart, the screen confirms
                                                                                            the item was added.
                             Swipe down to
                             the bottom of the                                              NOTE: To change the
                             Product Screen                                                 quantity type in the new
                                                                                            number into the box and
                             and press the                                                  press Update Quantity,
                             Quantity box to                                                or if you no longer want
                                                                                            the item, press Remove
                             type in a quantity,                                            From Cart.
                             then press the
                                                                                            Under these buttons you
                             Add To Cart                                                    can do a new Search,
                             button.                                                        Check Stock, or go to
                                                                                            the Cart to process your
                                                                                            order. Or swipe back to
                                                                                            the top of the page and
                                                                                            press Home to make
                                                                                            another selection.




Your Shopping Cart
                                                                                     NOTE: Screen shown if
                                                                                     Express Checkout is not
                                                                                     turned on yet. See next
                                                                                     page for instructions on
                                                                                     activating Express
                                                                                     Checkout function.


                             From the                                                From this screen, press
                                                                                     Checkout Settings or,
                             Home screen                                             from the Home screen,
                             press Cart.                                             press Express Checkout
                                                                                     Settings. If it is turned
                                                                                     on you will see the
                                                                                     words Express Checkout
                                                                                     on this button instead.




                                                                                     Press Express Checkout
                                                                                     and your order is placed
                                                                                     quickly into our order
                                                                                     processing system.




       C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                      crlaurence.com
       UG30 | crl-arch.com    crlaurence.ca        crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk    crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Your Shopping Cart (Continued)

                                 "Express Checkout"
                                 These settings can be
                                 done one time, from                  Each section will need to be reviewed,
                                 your mobile device on                updated, and approved one time so that
                                 this screen, or from our             all settings needed become your User
                                                                      Name's default settings.
                                 full web site. From this
                                 screen press Click To                After completing each section, press the
                                                                      Save button at the bottom. Once each
                                 Turn On. Doing this will             section has been reviewed and saved, and
                                 either turn it on or will            you press the Click to Turn On button
                                 return a warning letting             shown to the left, this button will change
                                                                      as shown below, and you can complete all
                                 you know what                        online shopping with one press.
                                 information needs to
                                 be updated before this
                                 service can be activated.




Locate CRL Service Centers
                                 Press CRL Service Centers.

                                 Then press on a
                                 Country for the
                                 location you
                                 would like to view.
                                 Now swipe up and down
                                 to view the Service Center
                                 location you are interested
                                 in getting directions to or
                                 telephoning.

                                 Press Call or Map. To
                                 return to Locations or the
                                 Home page, simply press
                                 the appropriate button at
                                 the top of the screen.


crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk     crlaurence.de           | UG31
               CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Contact Us
                                                                          If you are Signed On,
                                                                          your default contact
                                                                          name and email
                                                                          address associated
                                                                          with your user name
                                                                          will appear. Simply
                                                                          enter your comments
                                                                          and press Submit.

                                                                          Customer Service
                                                                          will reply promptly
                             Press Here.                                  during regular
                                                                          business hours.




Mobile Web Site Help


                                                                          Topics covering each
                                                                          of the available mobile
                                                                          functions are available.
                                                                          Press on the topic for
                                                                          the assistance you
                                                                          require, and follow the
                                                                          instructions shown.
                                                                          If you still require
                                                                          assistance, go back to
                                                                          the Home screen and
                             Press Here.                                  press Contact Us on
                                                                          your mobile phone, or
                                                                          give your local CRL
                                                                          Service Center a call.



       C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
       UG32 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
The Easiest Way to Keep the CRL Mobile Web Site Accessible
is to Add the CRL Icon to Your Home Screen

                                                                                 You will now have this
                                                                                 screen available.

                                                                                 Make your selection by
                                                                                 pressing on what you
                                                                                 would like to do.

                                                                                 To add an icon to your
                                                                                 device's home screen,
                                                                                 press Add to Home
                                                                                 Screen.




                                 Press Here.




                                 The icon                                        Now you can easily
                                 and name                                        access the CRL
                                 you want on                                     Mobile Web Site
                                 your device                                     by just pressing
                                 is shown.                                       the Icon from Your
                                 To complete                                     Mobile Device's
                                 adding it,                                      Home Screen.
                                 press Add.




crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG33
                CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Steps to Install, Start, and Use CRL Online Programs on
Your Tablet


                                   1                                                  2
                                  Download and                                       Start Citrix
                                  Install Citrix                                     Receiver™ from
                                  Receiver™                                          your tablet’s
                                  from the                                           desktop by
                                  APP Store.                                         pressing the
                                                                                     icon.




                                                                                      4
                                                                                     When
                                                                                     this error
                                                                                     appears,
                                                                                     press
                                                                                     Manual
                                                                                     Setup.




     Press in the Address Box to begin typing. Type in the complete URL
3    for the program you are adding.

     For example: http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/storefrontsapp.ica
     then press Next.



        C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                crlaurence.com
        UG34 | crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Steps to Install, Start, and Use CRL Online Programs on
Your Tablet (Continued)




          When this screen appears,                             Now each time you start the
    5     press in the Description Box
                                                         7
                                                                Citrix Receiver™, the Accounts
          to type in the Description                            Log On page will appear. Simply
          that you want to appear.                              press your selection to begin.



    6     After typing in the Description,
          Press Save in the top right corner.


        Input Any of These URL’s Into the Citrix Receiver™ New Account Screen
                      for Easy Access to CRL's Online Programs

   URL’s for Specific Programs
   CRL 'All-Glass' Storefronts             http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/storefrontsapp.ica
   CRL 'All-Glass' Storefronts Metric      http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/storefrontsappmetric.ica
   CRL Hand Rails Online                   http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/railingsapp.ica
   CRL Hand Rails Online Metric            http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/railingsappmetric.ica
   CRL Showers Online                      http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/showerapp.ica
   CRL Showers Online Metric               http://www.crlaurence.com/shower/showermetric.ica



crlaurence.com                                                    C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de   | UG35
                           CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
CRL Global Service
CRL Provides Global Service With
Regionally Oriented Web Sites
• Access to All CRL Products and
  Services is Available 24 Hours a Day,
  Seven Days a Week When You Visit
  Us Online
• Our Sites are Updated Continually to
  Bring You Our Newest Products and
  Special Offers
• The Entry Port for 'All-Glass' Store
  Fronts Online®,Showers Online,
  Hand Rails Online, and Our Other
  Web-Based Services
   As a global supplier to the industries we serve, CRL recognizes           You can also move from one site to another simply by clicking on
that the power of electronic commerce strengthens our ability to serve    the directory icon at the top of the home page. From here you have
you locally, as well as our other customers worldwide. And while the      access to all of our sites, giving you the opportunity to explore the
Internet had created a virtual “global village", it's important to also   entire scope of CRL's online world.
have the capability to tailor our web sites to the specific needs and        As we progress in this global strategy, look for us to include new
business conditions of the continents on which we are based. That         language options, and translation of our Online Catalog into many
being said, it became apparent that our web site, crlaurence.com,         more languages. We are committed to bringing you the virtual
had to at the same time be global in appeal, but still local enough to    world of C.R. Laurence and making your online shopping experience
be relevant.                                                              at crlaurence.com pleasant and easy to understand. We want you
   Thus the creation of our Global Web Site Directory. When you visit     to be comfortable with CRL, and will work hard to make that possible.
our web site you are directed to the home page of the individual site
designated to host your home country.




                                                                                                                       CRL Mobile
                                                                                                                       Web Site!
                                                                                                                       See Pages
                                                                                                                       UG27 to UG35
                                                                                                                       for More
                                                                                                                       Information

                C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                              crlaurence.com
                UG36 | crl-arch.com            crlaurence.ca          crlaurence.com.au           crlaurence.co.uk           crlaurence.de
                           CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
CRL Global Service
CRL Serves the World
With Ever-Improving
Service Capabilities
From Three Continents

• North America • Europe • Australia


   C.R. Laurence has been a supplier to customers worldwide for decades, and can now offer our unmatched range of products and services
from CRL locations on three continents: North America, Europe, and Australia. In our history we have prospered as a company because we've
followed a path of innovation and growth, always seeking new ways to use the latest technology to expand our service capabilities.



Communicating                                                                     Building A Network
   Major advancements in the world of communications have made much                   To provide the ever-improving service level we strive for
of this possible. We've always been among the first to introduce new ways         has meant bringing CRL to our customers. From a single
of reaching our customers, and in return, have made it easier for them to         Los Angeles, California location we have grown to a network
do business with us.                                                              of Service Centers in six countries on three continents.
   C.R. Laurence was the first in our industry to offer toll free telephone          Each of our Service Centers are connected to Corporate
ordering. For over thirty years our customers have been able to call our          Headquarters through our computer system, which monitors and
1-800 number to place orders, ask questions about products, get prices,           updates inventory levels with the arrival of each new delivery
and communicate with us without it costing them a cent. Our recent                truck and the shipment of each customer order. Every Service
expansion into Europe lets us offer the same free phone and free fax              Center receives fresh inventory each week through our
service to our customers on this continent.                                       Inter-Branch Transfer System so stock levels can remain high.
   In the early ‘80's we added toll free fax ordering, making it possible for     This improves the percentage of your orders we can ship
our customers to fax their purchase orders, parts lists, shop drawings and        complete, and usually on the same day we receive them.
the like directly to our Customer Service Department at CRL Corporate                Another advantage of having regionally located Service
Headquarters. It was during this time that we also introduced CRL FastFax,        Centers in or near major metropolitan areas is the opportunity to
providing customers instant notification that their orders had been shipped.      serve our customers in person. Each CRL Service Center has a
   One of our most important advances was the installation of the CRL             Will Call/Trade Counter open six days a week. See page UG18
Computer System in 1978. The power of our abilities multiplied many times         for information on how to find your nearest location.
when we went ‘online' because we were better able to track inventory levels          And in order to provide ever-improving service the CRL
throughout our distribution network, and better able to process your orders       network of Service Centers will continue to grow. In recent years
quickly and more accurately. The ongoing evolution of the CRL Computer            CRL service has come to Australia and Europe with the opening
System now includes our Internet and fax servers, which empowers us to            of locations to serve customers on these continents. New or
offer our customers in every corner of the world ever-improving service at        enlarged locations are planned for metropolitan areas
every step in the process, from order entry through shipping and billing.         throughout the U.S. With the opening of each new facility,
   Some say our most important communications advancement was our                 we make getting what you want from CRL faster and easier.
entry into the business of Electronic Commerce with the introduction of the
CRL web site in 1997. What was once a fledgling effort has blossomed into
a self-service web site featuring information regarding all of the products and
services CRL has to offer. Customers who use crlaurence.com find an               Investing In People To Serve You
enlightening and comprehensive web site that is constantly improving with
                                                                                     The best way we can serve you is to have capable people
the addition of new features that make it quicker and easier to use. And
                                                                                  available to answer your questions, take and expedite your
we now have globally-oriented web sites especially tailored to the countries
                                                                                  orders, suggest solutions to problems you may be having with a
from which we do business.
                                                                                  job, or to assist you in any manner we can. We maintain ongoing
   C.R. Laurence makes a serious effort to promote ever-improving
                                                                                  training programs so that the CRL people who serve you will
service by making the investments required to improve communications
                                                                                  have at their command the resources to make your business
at every level. We want your business dealings with CRL to be simple,
                                                                                  transactions with us a pleasant experience.
clear, and convenient. If you feel that we can improve communications at
any level, we would like to hear from you. To submit comments, go to
crlaurence.com and click on Contact Us, then click on Web Comments.



crlaurence.com                                                                               C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com        crlaurence.ca        crlaurence.com.au            crlaurence.co.uk         crlaurence.de          | UG37
                            CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
U.S. Aluminum is Now
Part of the C.R. Laurence
Family of Companies
  The entire scope of our products and services can
be quickly and easily accessed online through our
ever-evolving web site, usalum.com.

  You can examine our systems, search our resource
guides, and view our project galleries. If you wish to
contact any of our Service Centers there’s a directory of
phone numbers and addresses. You can also request
product literature and installation guides or just catch up
on the latest U.S. Aluminum news and press releases.

   New features, such as online stock checks, updated
product guides, and links to our social media pages are
frequently updated to enhance the value of the web site
for all users.

  We invite you to visit us at usalum.com, and to
contact us with your comments and suggestions about
how we can make it an even more valuable business
resource.




Product Information on usalum.com




                 C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                          crlaurence.com
                 UG38 | crl-arch.com             crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                                 CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Introducing crl-arch.com

     CRL PRESENTS THE NEW HOME FOR ARCHITECTS, DESIGNERS, AND SPECIFIERS




                          Architectural
                 ALUMINUM Products & Services
         INSTANT ACCESS TO:

         SPECIFICATIONS | CAD DWG's | ENGINEERING REPORTS
         LEED STATEMENTS | PROJECT GALLERY | VIDEO LIBRARY




   crl-arch.com is the online reference for CRL Architectural
Systems, designed with the architect, designer, specifier, and
contractor in mind. Here you will find instant access to CAD
Drawings, CSI Format Specifications, Engineering Reports,
LEED® Statements, Project Galleries, and our extensive Catalog
Library.

  In addition to our array of online tools, all of our products are
backed by a team of project managers, engineers, estimators,
designers, and specialists, ready to help you with your project
needs.

   C.R. Laurence is the leading manufacturer of Doors, 'All-Glass'
Entrance Hardware, Storefronts, Exit Devices, Commercial Doors,
Custom Cladding, Balanced Doors, Curtain Walls, Sunshades,
Architectural Railings, and Frameless Shower Door Hardware.
crl-arch.com is the new home for CRL Architectural Products,
including the family of dependable brands you've come to trust:
C.R. Laurence, U.S. Aluminum, Blumcraft, Jackson, Columbia
Manufacturing Corporation, and Tajima.




      Easy to find specifications, cad files, LEED® information,          Cad Files in both dwg and pdf formats.       Specifications in both
            project galleries, catalogs, and much more!                                                                doc and pdf formats.




crlaurence.com                                                                                  C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com            crlaurence.ca              crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk           crlaurence.de   | UG39
               CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
                                            Supplying the World With Glazing, Architectural,
                                             Railing, Screen, Construction, Industrial, and
                                                          Automotive Supplies
    ALUMINUM                                          C.R. Laurence Co., Inc. An ISO9001: 2008 Company

                                                                                      C.R. Laurence Co., Inc.
There Are Many Ways to Find Just                                                      2503 E. Vernon Ave.
                                                                                      Los Angeles, California 90058-1897
the Right Product for Any Job, and                                                    Toll Free Phone     (800) 421-6144

We Are Here to Help                                                                   Toll Free Fax       (800) 262-3299
                                                                                      International Phone (323) 588-1281
                                                                                      International Fax   (323) 581-6522


                             Send An Email or Request to CRL's Online Support
                                 You've looked through our catalog and tried the SEARCH FEATURE on our web site, and still
                             couldn't find what you were looking for? Don't give up, just ask us for assistance online. Go to the
                             crlaurence.com home page and click on Contact Us. Then click on Online Support to tell us what
                             it is you are looking for. Our Online Support Department will respond with an answer, usually within
                             one hour if you contact us during normal business hours.
                                 If you have a picture, drawing, or attachment you need to send along with your request, you can
                             send a direct email by addressing it to crl@crlaurence.com. We will do our best to help you
                             because your satisfaction is our goal.



                             Call Us Toll Free At (800) 421-6144
                                There's a friendly and helpful voice to help with your product inquiries whenever you call us toll
                             free at (800) 421-6144 from anywhere in the United States or Canada. Please ask for Customer
                             Service and let us know what you are looking for, how many you need, and when you need them.
                             We're experts at searching available sources worldwide. The experience gained by decades of
                             service affords us the ability to serve you in more ways than you might realize.




                             Fax Us Toll Free At (800) 262-3299
                                They say a picture is worth a thousand words, and when you send us a fax describing what you
                             need it makes it that much easier to serve you. CRL offers toll free fax service from anywhere in
                             the United States and Canada. Just dial (800) 262-3299, and address your request to CRL
                             Customer Service. Make sure to include your name and return telephone number. We'll be
                             in touch shortly with an answer.




                             Send Us A Sample
                               Need a special part but haven't been able to find it anywhere? We can usually help you by e-mail,
                             phone or fax, but when that doesn't work, we offer a sample matching service that is determined to
                             serve you. Every year hundreds of CRL customers send us samples of what they're looking for
                             because they know that, quite often, CRL is their best chance of getting just what they need.
                             You may send a sample of what you need to: CRL Customer Service, 2503 E. Vernon Avenue,
                             Los Angeles, CA 90058-1897. Be sure to include your name and telephone number so we can
                             call you with the results of our search.



       C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                          crlaurence.com
       UG40 | crl-arch.com      crlaurence.ca          crlaurence.com.au             crlaurence.co.uk            crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE

                                          C.R. Laurence Customer Services
                                            We are always pleased to receive your orders, and anxious to fill them as promptly as
                                          possible. You can place your order at CRL in a number of ways. Our people will do their

     ALUMINUM                             best to make your shopping experience at CRL pleasant and time-efficient.


                                                         Methods of Ordering
                                                         Online at crlaurence.com
                                                            Many of our customers have found the most convenient method of
                                                         ordering from CRL is through our self-service web site. When you use
                                                         crlaurence.com to place your orders you have so many options that other
                                                         methods don't provide. You set the schedule and the pace because you
                                                         can log on 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You can build a personal
                                                         catalog; even make changes or additions to your orders online. And now
                                                         our new mobile site lets you order online from the job site or on the go.




                                                         Toll Free Fax Service
                                                            When we introduced toll free fax service in the ‘80's we had no idea
                                                         how popular it would become, but now our customers send us up to
                                                         1,000 orders or quote requests every business day! Fax ordering is
                                                         very convenient because you can fill out your own purchase orders and
                                                         then just fax them to us. You can be specific about shipping instructions
                                                         or other details that will help us serve you. To send your orders or quote
                                                         requests by toll free fax from anywhere in the U.S. or Canada, just dial
                                                         (800) 262-3299.


                                                         Toll Free Customer Service Order Desk
                                                            For over 40 years CRL has provided toll free ordering at
                                                         (800) 421-6144. When you call our Customer Service Order Desk you'll
                                                         find CRL people who are trained to provide assistance with CRL products
                                                         and services. They have instant access to pricing, stock availability, and
                                                         the status of your account, plus they can connect you to CRL Technical
                                                         Sales personnel if you need specialized product assistance. Order Desk
                                                         hours are 6 am to 5 pm (Pacific Time) Monday through Friday, and 7 am to
                                                         12 pm Saturdays.


                                                         Will Call/Trade Counter and Showroom
                                                            Every CRL Service Center has a Will Call/Trade Counter where you can
                                                         place and pick up your orders in person. And when you place your order
                                                         in advance by phone, fax, or over the Internet we can have it ready and
                                                         waiting for you, which can save you a lot of time. Will Call/Trade Counter
                                                         hours are 7 am to 5 pm Monday through Friday, and 8 am to 12 pm
                                                         Saturdays. Some of our most experienced people staff our Will Call/Trade
                                                         Counters, and they are always happy to see you. Remember, to save time
                                                         place your order in advance.


                                 C.R. Laurence is a manufacturer and wholesale distributor. Possession of our catalogs, or
Who May Buy                    any other CRL sales literature, does not constitute an offer to sell. Orders from individuals
                               (except professional tradesmen) may not be accepted.

crlaurence.com                                                                  C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au          crlaurence.co.uk         crlaurence.de          | UG41
                          CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Customer Service Order Desk                                                                                          Ask for Extension



                                                                                                              5275
• Get Product Information                               • Place or Trace Orders
• Request Price Quotes                                  • Check Your Account Status
• Check Stock Availability                              • Request Catalogs
   Customer Service Order Desk hours are 6 am to 5 pm (Pacific Time) Monday through Friday, and 7 am to                     Direct Fax
12 pm Saturday. If you wish to pick up your order at the Will Call Trade Counter of our regional warehouses         (800) 262-3299
the hours are 8 am to 5 pm Monday through Friday, and 8 am to 12 pm Saturday. For the fastest Will Call                  Direct E-Mail
service be sure to place your order in advance so we can have it ready upon your arrival.                     crl@crlaurence.com

Technical Sales Business Groups
                                                                 Ask for Extension
Glass and Glazing

                                                         5275
• Glass Handling Equipment
• Glazier's Tools and Machinery
• Mirror and Glass Hardware
• Retail Display Hardware                                                Direct Fax
  and Standoffs                                                (800) 262-3299
                                                                      Direct E-Mail
• Safety Gear                                            crl@crlaurence.com
• Sealants, Adhesives,
  and Fasteners
• UV Glass Bonding
• Vacuum Lifting Equipment
• Glass Cleaners
• Security Solutions
  for the Locksmith Industry

Door and Window Control Hardware
• Door Closers and Hardware
• Commercial Door Hardware
• Insulating Glass Supplies               Ask for Extension

• Patio Door Hardware
• Residential Window Hardware
• Guarda Security Screens
• Screen Wire and Supplies
                                                         7520
                                                  Direct Fax
• Storm Door and Window Supplies         (866)  921-0531
                                              Direct E-Mail
• Screen and Security Doors      glazing@crlaurence.com



                                                                  United States (800) 421-6144                       Ask for Extension
Online Assistance
by Telephone:                                                           Canada (877) 421-6144
                                                                   International (323) 588-1281               6200
                C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                         crlaurence.com
                UG42 | crl-arch.com           crlaurence.ca         crlaurence.com.au            crlaurence.co.uk    crlaurence.de
                   CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Technical Sales Business Groups
Architectural Hardware                                     Ask for Extension
• Architectural Storefronts
• 'All-Glass' Entrance Systems
• Door and Sidelite Rails
• Glass Walls and Partitions
                                                     7700         Direct Fax
• Stacking and Sliding Glass Doors
                                                         (800) 587-7501
• Structural Glass Fittings                                    Direct E-Mail
• Balanced Doors                          architectural@crlaurence.com
• Bi-Folding Doors

Blumcraft Architectural Metals
                                                          Ask for Extension
• Tubular Architectural Hardware
• Tempered Glass Door Hardware
• Panic Hardware
• Railing Systems
                                                     7700        Direct Fax
• Smoke Baffles
                                                         (800) 587-7501
• Glass Gates                                                 Direct E-Mail
• Display Case Doors                      architectural@crlaurence.com


Architectural and Ornamental Metals
• Brake Shaped Metals                                     Ask for Extension
• Canopies and Sunshades
• Column Covers (Cladding)
• Custom Entrances and Storefronts
• Ornamental Hand and Guard Rails
                                                     7770        Direct Fax
• Wall Panel Systems                                     (866) 921-0532
• Bollards                                                    Direct E-Mail
                                           archmetals@crlaurence.com
• Glass Awnings
• Balanced Doors


U.S. Aluminum
• Storefronts and Entrance Doors                          Ask for Extension
• Elephant Doors
• Curtain and Window Walls
• Sun Control Systems
• Windows
                                                     5305        Direct Fax
• Hurricane Resistant Systems                            (866) 262-3299
• Blast Mitigation Systems                                     Direct E-Mail
                                               usalum@crlaurence.com
• Office Partition Systems


crlaurence.com                                                      C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
crl-arch.com   crlaurence.ca   crlaurence.com.au   crlaurence.co.uk    crlaurence.de   | UG43
                      CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE
Technical Sales Business Groups
Frameless Shower Door
• Hinges and Clamps
• Knobs and Pull Handles
• Sliding Shower Enclosures
                                                               Ask for Extension
• Towel and Grab Bars
• Clear Polycarbonates, Vinyl Seals,
  and Edge Wipes
• Vanity and Wardrobe Mirrors
• 'All-Glass' Restroom Partitions
                                                           7740
                                                   Direct Fax (800) 458-7496
• Shower Installation Tools        Direct E-Mail showers@crlaurence.com




Architectural Railings                                           Ask for Extension
• Aluminum Railing Systems
• Cap Railing Systems
• Hand Railing Systems
• Heavy Glass Base Shoe
                                                           7730
                                                        Direct Fax (800) 587-7501
• Post Railing Systems                   Direct E-Mail railings@crlaurence.com
• Windscreen and Gate Systems



Transaction and Hospitality                                      Ask for Extension
• Bullet Resistant Exchange Windows
• Drive-Thru and Walk-Up Windows
• Food Service Sneeze Guards
• Partition Posts and Booth Dividers
                                                           7760
                                                    Direct Fax (800) 458-7496
• Safety and Security Mirrors    Direct E-Mail transaction@crlaurence.com
• Speak-Thru Devices              Direct E-Mail hospitality@crlaurence.com



Automotive
                                                                 Ask for Extension
• Auto Glass Shop Products
• Auto Glass Tools
• Pop-Up and Electric Sunroofs
• Truck Sliding Rear Windows
                                                          7780
                                                      Direct Fax (800) 587-7501
• Van and RV Windows
                                     Direct E-Mail automotive@crlaurence.com



             C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                          crlaurence.com
             UG44 | crl-arch.com     crlaurence.ca      crlaurence.com.au        crlaurence.co.uk   crlaurence.de
                           CRL ONLINE CATALOG USER'S GUIDE

U.S. Aluminum, Blumcraft and Jackson are
a Big Part of the Future of C.R. Laurence

CRL U.S. Aluminum
   C.R. Laurence Company is pleased to announce the acquisition of United States
Aluminum. Originally founded in 1960, United States Aluminum offers the glass and glazing
industry a broad range of high-quality storefront and curtain wall products available through
a North American network of customer-focused service centers.
   Their engineers and fabrication specialists developed many architectural systems widely
used in the construction of residential, commercial, and institutional buildings. Through
precise engineering and testing in a variety of climate conditions, the company improved
upon their designs, resulting in architectural systems known throughout the industry as
                                                                                                            ALUMINUM
being innovative, durable, and reliable. Architects and designers who are familiar with the qualities found in United States Aluminum systems
know that they can specify them with confidence to their clients. The company has invested the time and effort required to assure their systems
are properly tested to meet the conditions required to pass local and national building codes; including some of the very strictest, such as the
Miami/Dade County Protocols for impact resistance in hurricane-prone areas.
   Now renamed U.S. Aluminum in its partnership with C.R. Laurence, the company continues to make available the architectural systems that
have made them a leader in the industry for so long. For more information, contact U.S. Aluminum Technical Sales at (800) 262-5151, or visit
our web site at usalum.com.




CRL-Blumcraft
   Blumcraft of Pittsburgh is a member of the C.R. Laurence family of
companies. An icon in the architectural metal and glass industry, Blumcraft
has been designing, manufacturing, and delivering high quality products to
the architectural metal and glass industry for over 95 years. The company's
                                                                                        BLUMCRAFT
tempered glass doors, panic hardware, hand rails, and display doors are well              A DIVISION OF C.R. LAURENCE CO., INC.
known to architects, contractors, and installers in their building trades. Blumcraft
has close ties to many architectural firms, customizing products to their specifications.
   Blumcraft metalwork elements have been installed in more than 80,000 buildings throughout the world, including the White House,
the Smithsonian Institute, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Louvre in Paris, and many other prestigious buildings.
   The acquisition of Blumcraft benefits CRL customers by providing even more choices of high quality architectural hardware products.
We value the experience, reputation, and technical expertise of the Blumcraft staff, and are pleased they are part of the CRL team.
   For more information about the Blumcraft line, please contact CRL Technical Sales for Architectural Products or visit our
web site at crlaurence.com.




CRL Jackson
   Jackson Corporation is now a member of CRL Manufacturing. Jackson has been a leading
manufacturer of door hardware for the aluminum and tempered glass door industry for over 50
years. In 1995 they became the first U.S. hardware manufacturer to be certified to ISO 9001
quality standards. The manufacturing operations are housed in our new facility in
Los Angeles, and Jackson products are distributed through CRL's worldwide network.
                                                                                                     crlaurence.com
   This joining provides CRL customers more choices than ever of traditionally high quality
Jackson architectural hardware. Jackson's very popular Transom Closer was originally developed
and patented over 35 years ago. The innovative features of today's versions continue to make the
Jackson Transom Closer a top choice. The company's Panic Exit Hardware is universally recognized
as the standard for the aluminum storefront market.
   The experience gained through this move is invaluable, and we welcome the Jackson staff into our Technical Sales and
Manufacturing efforts. For more information, to place an order or request a quote, contact CRL Jackson Technical Sales or
visit our web site at crlaurence.com.



crlaurence.com                                                                             C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY
 crl-arch.com        crlaurence.ca        crlaurence.com.au          crlaurence.co.uk         crlaurence.de          | UG45
                                             C.R. LAURENCE COMPANY                                                                                       CAT. NO.
                                             An ISO9001:2008 Certified Company                                                                           UG15
UNITED STATES                                     Toll Free Phone: (800) 421-6144                Toll Free Fax: (800) 262-3299

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
LOS ANgELES, CA                                    CHICAgO, IL (USAL)                             LOS ANgELES, CA (USAL)                              PHOENIX, AZ (CRL)
2503 E. Vernon Avenue                              5501 West Ogden Avenue                         2450 E. Vernon Avenue                               640 S. 54th Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90058-1897                         Cicero, IL 60804-3507                          Los Angeles, CA 90058-1802                          Phoenix, AZ 85043-4731
Phone: (323) 588-1281                              Phone: (708) 458-9070                          Phone: (323) 268-4230                               Phone: (602) 269-7500
Fax: (323) 581-6522                                Fax: (708) 458-7364                            Fax: (866) 262-3299                                 Fax: (602) 269-7600

ATLANTA, gA (CRL)                                  CLEvELANd AREA (CRL)                           mIAmI AREA (CRL)                                    SAN dIEgO, CA (CRL)
600 Wharton Drive                                  31600 Carter Street                            14290 N.W. 4th Street                               10280 Camino Santa Fe
Atlanta, GA 30336-4040                             Solon, OH 44139-3551                           Sunrise, FL 33325-6226                              San Diego, CA 92121-3105
Phone: (404) 696-3445                              Phone: (440) 248-0003                          Phone: (954) 846-9233                               Phone: (858) 678-8984
Fax: (404) 696-3386                                Fax: (440) 248-0120                            Fax: (954) 846-9277                                 Fax: (858) 678-0486

ATLANTA, gA (USAL)                                 dALLAS, TX (CRL/USAL)                          mIAmI, FL (USAL)                                    SAN FRANCISCO/OAkLANd AREA (CRL)
5530 Westpark Drive SW                             2080 Lone Star Drive                           7500 N.W. 69th Avenue                               33200 Dowe Avenue
Atlanta, GA 30336-2645                             Dallas, TX 75212-6390                          Miami, FL 33166-2524                                Union City, CA 94587-2013
Phone: (404) 344-3468                              Phone: (214) 634-7305                          Phone: (305) 888-0077                               Phone: (510) 475-1000
Fax: (404) 344-3412                                Fax: (214) 631-6519                            Fax: (305) 884-3111                                 Fax: (510) 475-1404

bOSTON AREA (CRL)                                  dENvER, CO (CRL/USAL)                          NEw yORk CITy AREA (CRL)                            SEATTLE AREA (CRL)
97 Robert Treat Paine Drive                        4770 Joliet Street                             211 County Avenue                                   23000 64th Avenue S.
Taunton, MA 02780-1267                             Denver, CO 80239-2513                          Secaucus, NJ 07094-2006                             Kent, WA 98032-1838
Phone: (508) 880-5600                              Phone: (303) 373-9988                          Phone: (201) 770-1077                               Phone: (253) 850-5800
Fax: (508) 880-5775                                Fax: (303) 373-0884                            Fax: (201) 770-1599                                 Fax: (253) 813-1818

CHARLOTTE AREA (CRL/USAL)                          HOUSTON, TX (CRL/USAL)                         ORLANdO, FL (CRL/USAL)                              ST. LOUIS, mO (USAL)
780 Celriver Road                                  4420 Windfern Road                             6950 Presidents Drive                               11621 Fairgrove Industrial Blvd.
Rock Hill, SC 29730-7419                           Houston, TX 77041-8918                         Orlando, FL 32809-5668                              Maryland Heights, MO 63043-3437
Phone: (803) 366-8326                              Phone: (713) 462-6300                          Phone: (407) 857-7900                               Phone: (314) 997-5112
Fax: (803) 366-5776                                Fax: (713) 462-6306                            Fax: (407) 857-7766                                 Fax: (314) 997-7504

                                                   LAS vEgAS, Nv (CRL)                            PHILAdELPHIA AREA (CRL)                             wAXAHACHIE, TX (USAL)
CHICAgO AREA (CRL)                                                                                                                                    (dALLAS AREA)
2765 Spectrum Drive                                4120 Sobb Avenue                               1511 Lancer Drive
                                                                                                                                                      200 Singleton Drive
Elgin, IL 60124-7841                               Las Vegas, NV 89118-6857                       Moorestown, NJ 08057-4232
                                                                                                                                                      Waxahachie, TX 75165-5012
Phone: (847) 426- 3800                             Phone: (702) 253-0211                          Phone: (856) 727-1022
                                                                                                                                                      Phone: (972) 937-9651
Fax: (847) 426-0111                                Fax: (702) 253-0311                            Fax: (856) 727-3299
                                                                                                                                                      Fax: (800) 289-6440


MANUFACTURING
CRL mANUFACTURINg                                  CRL mANUFACTURINg                              CRL mACHINERy                                       COLUmbIA mANUFACTURINg
2200 E. 55th Street                                2100 E. 38th Street                            5501 West Ogden Avenue                              14400 S. San Pedro Street
Los Angeles, CA 90058-3438                         Los Angeles, CA 90058-1617                     Cicero, IL 60804-3507                               Gardena, CA 90248-2027
Phone: (323) 588-1281                              Phone: (323) 588-1281                          Phone: (866) 583-1377                               Phone: (310) 327-9300
Fax: (323) 581-6522                                Fax: (323) 232-2240                            Fax: (866) 584-9722                                 Fax: (310) 323-8220



                                            crlaurence.com                                usalum.com                              crl-arch.com

CRL OF CANADA                                                                           CRL OF EUROPE                                                       CRL OF AUSTRALIA
CANADA HEADQUARTERS                                                                     EUROPE HEADQUARTERS                                                 AUSTRALIA HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                        mANCHESTER AREA, ENgLANd        STUTTgART AREA, gERmANy             SydNEy AREA
TORONTO AREA                  mONTREAL AREA (CRL)        CALgARy, ALbERTA (CRL)
                                                                                        Charles Babbage Avenue          Boschstrasse 7                      9 Shale Place
(CRL/USAL)                    8200, Rue Des Bâtisseurs   4200 116 Avenue SE
                                                                                        Kingsway Business Park,         D-74360                             Eastern Creek, NSW 2766
65 Tigi Court                 Anjou, Quebec H1J 3B3      Calgary, Alberta T2Z 4B5
                                                                                        Rochdale, OL16 4NW, England     Ilsfeld, Germany                    Phone: (02) 9851-3444
Concord, Ontario L4K 5E4      Phone: (514) 352-3300      Phone: (403) 250-5783
                                                                                        Phone: +44 (0)1706 863 600      Phone: +49 (0)7062 915 93 15        Fax: (02) 9851-3445
Phone: (905) 303-7966         Fax: (514) 352-1017        Fax: (403) 291-3260
Fax: (905) 303-7965                                                                     Fax: +44 (0)1706 869 860        Fax: +49 (0)7062 915 93 16
                                                                                                                                                            mELbOURNE AREA            Toll Free Phone:
                                                                                                                                                            42 Enterprise Drive       1800 424 275
vANCOUvER AREA (CRL)          vANCOUvER AREA (USAL) Toll Free Phone:                    COPENHAgEN AREA, dENmARk
                                                    (800) 421-6144                      Stamholmen 70 Unit B                                                Rowville, VIC 3178
11920 Horseshoe Way           5377 272nd Street
                                                                                                                                                            Phone: (03) 9764-8322     Toll Free Fax:
Richmond, BC V7A 4V5          Langley, BC V4W 1P1                                       DK-2650 Hvidovre, Denmark
                                                                                                                        Freephone: 00 800 0421 6144         Fax: (03) 9764-8378       1800 813 013
Phone: (604) 448-9344         Phone: (604) 857-7766 Toll Free Fax:                      Phone: +45 (36) 72 09 00
Fax: (604) 448-9322           Fax: (604) 857-1377   (800) 262-3299                      Fax: +45 (36) 70 33 35          Freefax: 00 800 0262 3299


                                crlaurence.ca                                               crlaurence.co.uk • crlaurence.de                                    crlaurence.com.au




     POST OFFICE bOX 58923, LOS ANgELES CA 90058-0923                               |   INTERNATIONAL PHONE: (323) 588-1281 • INTERNATIONAL FAX: (323) 581-6522
                                                                                                                                                         © Copyright 2014, C.R. Laurence Co., Inc.

---

*This document was automatically generated from PDF content. For questions about this content, contact the Glaze Glassworks LLC team.*
